--- start HPO----
WASHINGTON -- In the wake of Mitt Romney's choice of Paul Ryan as his vice presidential nominee, the politics of Medicare have become almost as complicated as the policy itself.
The most recent back-and-forth between the Romney and Obama campaigns concerns which candidate would do more harm to people's benefits.
While the president's team has pointed to the Republican plan to turn Medicare into a quasi-voucher program -- in which recipients would receive a check to buy either insurance through the private market or traditional Medicare -- the Romney team has responded by noting that Obama took more than $700 billion out of Medicare as part of his health care overhaul.
"He stole $700 billion from Medicare to fund Obamacare," said RNC Chair Reince Priebus.
"If any person in this entire debate has blood on their hands in regard to Medicare, it's Barack Obama."
That rejoinder is now a subject of intense debate.
The money being taken out of the system by the Affordable Care Act is mostly derived from limiting the expected rate of growth in the program.
The savings come predominantly from limiting waste, fraud and abuse, mostly in Medicare Advantage, and are budgeted to help subsidize insurance for people under the ACA.
As such, independent fact-checkers and news analysts alike have disputed the Romney campaign's characterization.
Part of the reason that the Obama campaign is crying foul over this line of criticism, however, may be because it knows how effective it can be.
Republicans also used the charge that Obamacare raided Medicare as a primary attack line in the 2010 congressional elections.
Two years prior, then-Senator Obama used virtually identical language to beat up on his general election opponent, Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.):
"How would your golden years turn out under John McCain?
His health care plan would cut Medicare by $800 billion -- that means a 22 percent cut in benefits.
Higher premiums and co-pays ... after a lifetime of work, senior's health care shouldn't be a gamble.
John McCain's plan, it's not the change we need."
Obama made the same argument on the stump.
"It turns out, Senator McCain would pay for part of his plan by making drastic cuts in Medicare: $882 billion worth -- $882 billion in Medicare cuts to pay for a ill-conceived, badly thought-through health care plan that won't provide more health care to people, even though Medicare is already facing a looming shortfall," Obama declared at a campaign stop in Roanoke, Va.
Douglas Holtz-Eakin, McCain's policy director at the time, recalled that the attack originated with a Wall Street Journal article that referenced his saying that McCain would assume savings in Medicare and Medicaid spending to make his health care plan budget neutral.
Those savings were expected to come from eliminating fraud and reforming payment policies.
The possibility of increasing Medicare premiums for higher-income earners was also floated.
FactCheck.org rated the Obama ad as "false," noting that the McCain campaign wasn't talking about slashing benefits but limiting waste and slowing the rate of growth.
Holtz-Eakin said, "We were looking for efficiencies in delivery a la Managed Medicaid."
This was a relatively minor aspect of the Obama campaign's assault on McCain's Medicare record.
The more substantive criticism concerned McCain's proposal to tax worker health care plans as a way of generating money to give people a new tax credit so that they could buy private insurance.
"Like Governor Romney has refused to specify how he will pay for his $5 trillion tax cuts weighted toward millionaires, Senator McCain would have cut $1.3 trillion from health care programs to pay for tax cuts while refusing to rule out cutting benefits or to say what he was cutting," Obama's current campaign press secretary, Ben LaBolt, said in an email to The Huffington Post.
"President Obama achieved a third as much savings by eliminating unnecessary subsidies to insurances companies and getting waste and fraud out of the system in order to improve seniors' benefits -- saving them $600 a year on prescription drugs and providing them with access to preventive care.
Senator McCain and Governor Romney have subsequently opposed the savings that the president identified and demagogued the issue, ironically, since Governor Romney's running mate kept them in his budget."
But the attack on McCain's accounting was part of the assault nonetheless.
And in light of the current debate over Medicare proposals, it could complicate the political dialogue even further.
Certainly, as the Washington Examiner's Phillip Klein notes, it will contribute to the general reluctance to talk substantively about Medicare reform out of a concern that it merely invites future attacks.
--- end HPO----

--- start NYT----
WASHINGTON - Representative Paul D. Ryan’s budget blueprint assumes the same amount of Medicare savings as President Obama’s health care law, even though Mitt Romney and Mr. Ryan have said those cuts would be devastating to millions of older Americans on Medicare
As the partisan brawl over Medicare continued on Tuesday and threatened to become the focus of the race, the Obama campaign said that Mr. Ryan’s budget plan — broadly endorsed by Mr. Romney — “would end Medicare as we know it” and shift costs to beneficiaries.
The Republicans hit back on Tuesday with a television commercial asserting that the Romney-Ryan Medicare plan was better for older Americans.
“You paid into Medicare for years, every paycheck,” the advertisement says.
“Now when you need it, Obama has cut $716 billion from Medicare.
Why? To pay for Obamacare.
So now the money you paid for your guaranteed health care is going to a massive new government program that’s not for you.”
Lis Smith, a spokeswoman for the Obama campaign, said, “Mitt Romney’s Medicare ad is dishonest and hypocritical.”
The savings, she said, “do not cut a single guaranteed Medicare benefit.”
In an interview with Fox News on Tuesday, Mr. Ryan said he welcomed the back and forth.
“This is a debate we want to have,” he said.
“We’re the ones who are offering a plan to save Medicare, to protect Medicare, to strengthen Medicare.”
With 50 million beneficiaries, Medicare is a major concern for both parties.
The current fight centers on changes in the program made in the new health law, the Affordable Care Act, passed in 2010 without Republican votes.
Mr. Obama would use the savings to help offset the cost of covering the uninsured, as well as to improve the financial condition of the Medicare trust fund.
Mr. Ryan says he would use the money to shore up Medicare and to help reduce budget deficits.
Republicans won control of the House in 2010 partly by arguing that Democrats had raided Medicare to pay for Mr. Obama’s health care law.
Democrats hope to deflect such attacks this year by pointing out that Mr. Ryan’s budget plan, approved twice by the House, includes similar savings — roughly $700 billion from 2013 to 2022, according to the Congressional Budget Office.
Those savings have a complicated history.
Mr. Ryan’s budget plan was approved in March by the House Budget Committee, of which he is chairman.
Before the vote, committee members discussed the budget plan and the Medicare provisions in detail.
Representative Allyson Y. Schwartz, Democrat of Pennsylvania, asked whether the savings in the Affordable Care Act — “sometimes referred to as cuts to Medicare” — were part of Mr. Ryan’s budget.
Austin Smythe, the panel’s Republican staff director, said: “We assume those savings.
We devote them to solvency of Medicare and to deficit reduction, instead of covering the expansions.”
At another point, Mr. Smythe said, “We assume the repeal of all of the expansions in the Affordable Care Act.”
Those expansions, he said, include subsidies to help low- and middle-income people buy private insurance.
Democrats said that repeal of the new law would also wipe out new Medicare benefits, like additional coverage of prescription drugs and preventive services.
The House approved the Ryan budget plan on March 29 by a vote of 228 to 191, with all but 10 Republicans voting for it.
Mr. Romney has offered a Medicare proposal similar to Mr. Ryan’s.
But the Romney campaign said Tuesday that Mr. Romney would restore the money being squeezed out of Medicare by the 2010 health law.
“Mitt Romney and Paul Ryan have always been fully committed to repealing Obamacare, ending President Obama’s $716 billion raid on Medicare, and tackling the serious fiscal challenges our country faces,” said Lanhee Chen, the policy director for the Romney campaign.
“A Romney-Ryan administration will restore the funding to Medicare.”
The Ryan plan, like any budget resolution, specifies levels of spending, savings and revenues, based on certain policy assumptions.
But, as Mr. Smythe pointed out, “the committees of jurisdiction determine the details” in separate legislation.
Mr. Ryan and Mr. Obama would impose similar overall constraints on Medicare spending, stipulating that average spending per beneficiary should not grow faster than the economy, measured by the per capita output of goods and services, plus one-half of one percentage point.
However, they would achieve the goal in different ways.
Mr. Ryan and Mr. Romney would limit the government’s current open-ended financial commitment to Medicare.
The government would contribute a fixed amount of money on behalf of each beneficiary, and future beneficiaries could use the money to buy private insurance or to help pay for coverage under the traditional Medicare program.
The new health care law, by contrast, will reduce projected Medicare payments to health maintenance organizations, hospitals and many other health care providers.
As a backstop, to ensure savings, the law creates a Medicare cost control board.
Cuts recommended by the board would take effect automatically unless Congress voted to block or change them.
Mr. Romney and Mr. Ryan would abolish the panel, which they describe as a tool for rationing health care.
--- end NYT----

--- start FOX (w error) ----
Paul Ryan went on offense Tuesday in response to criticism over his Medicare plan, using an interview with Fox News coupled with a new TV ad to claim President Obama’s health care plan treats the treasured entitlement like a “piggy bank,” while the “Romney-Ryan” plan preserves it.
Ryan, in his first one-on-one interview since being named Saturday as Mitt Romney’s running mate, told Fox News on Tuesday he thinks Medicare can be a winning issue for their campaign.
"We're the ones who are offering a plan to save Medicare, to protect Medicare, to strengthen Medicare," Ryan said.
"We're the ones who are not raiding Medicare to pay for ObamaCare.
… We're the ones continuing the guarantee of Medicare for people in or near retirement."
He added: “President Obama is actually damaging Medicare for current seniors.
It's irrefutable and that's why I think this is a debate we want to have, and that's the debate we're going to win.”
The comments signal Ryan and Romney are prepared to dig in and fight back, as Democrats lob charges that Ryan stands for “ending Medicare as we know it.”
The Obama campaign used that line Monday in a Web video timed for Romney’s arrival in Florida, with its large senior population.
The video pointed to Ryan’s budget proposals, which include significant changes to Medicare.
The Romney campaign retorted with an ad of its own Tuesday.
The ad says: “You paid in to Medicare for years … now when you need it, Obama has cut $716 billion from Medicare.
Why? To pay for ObamaCare.”
Ryan told Fox News the campaign is trying to show the “clear contrast” between what Republicans propose and what Obama’s health care law does.
Ryan wants to make changes to Medicare for those retiring a decade from now but leave benefits for current retirees and those retiring soon in place.
“They turned Medicare into a piggy bank to finance ObamaCare,” Ryan said.
“And we want to point that out.
And we want to … restore those cuts to prevent that raid.
… And so we propose no changes to anybody in or near retirement so that the guarantee of Medicare is for them.
That's a clear contrast with President Obama's plan.”
The Obama campaign is disputing that argument.
Obama campaign spokeswoman Lis Smith described the new Romney-Ryan ad on the subject as “dishonest and hypocritical,” considering Ryan’s own proposals for Medicare.
“The savings his ad attacks do not cut a single guaranteed Medicare benefit, and Mitt Romney embraced the very same savings when he promised he’d sign Paul Ryan’s budget,” Smith said.
“Because the president is eliminating subsidies to insurance companies and cutting waste and fraud, we’ve extended the life of Medicare by eight years.
The truth is that the Romney-Ryan budget would end Medicare as we know it: people with Medicare would be left with nothing but a voucher in place of the guaranteed benefits they rely on today.”
Both sides are being selective in how they describe each other’s plans.
The Ryan proposal, submitted again in the House earlier this year, would a decade from now give seniors government payments to purchase private plans or stay within the current system.
Ryan says this is to preserve Medicare, not “end” it, as Obama’s campaign claims.
But while Ryan slams the health care overhaul for cutting Medicare, even he acknowledged that his own plan achieves “savings” for Medicare in the long run.
Though he doesn’t use the word “cuts,” the plan would slow the rate of benefit growth for seniors according to the Congressional Budget Office.
And the ObamaCare cuts he referenced would likely come in the form of lower payments to providers.
A Romney campaign aide, though, said “that’s a distinction without a difference” since the “provider passes that reduction along to” patients.
In his interview with Fox News, Ryan also hammered Obama for what he called his “utter failure when it comes to creating jobs.”
Amplifying the Romney campaign message, he said Obama’s heavy borrowing is dragging down economic growth – he also claimed the “hope and change campaign of '08 has become the blame and attack campaign of 2012.”
Ryan offered new insight as well on how Romney and Ryan came to bond in the months before he was announced as running mate.
He recalled when he was campaigning with Romney earlier this year ahead of the Wisconsin primary.
“We spent about five days on the road, five working hour or so days,” he said.
“And in between all of those stops, driving from, you know, Appleton to Green Bay to Janesville to Milwaukee, we got to know each other.
We conversed on policy issues, on where to take the country.
And sooner or later, we basically started sharing the microphones at these town hall meetings and we just kind of developed a chemistry with one another and a mutual understanding with each other.”
Ryan said he doesn’t know whether he had a “special place” but it was “very clear we thought the same on these issues.”
“When he asked me to join the ticket, he basically said to me, 'You share my values and you have the kind of experience that could be a complement to my experience to getting this country back on track, to creating jobs, to getting people back to work, to saving this country from a debt crisis,'" Ryan said.
Ryan also discussed his affection for novelist Ayn Rand, saying “Atlas Shrugged” triggered his interest in economics.
He said he doesn’t share her overall philosophy but said her books “showed how the pitfalls of socialism can hurt the economy.”
Obama, meanwhile, took on Ryan for the second straight day Tuesday, using a stop in Oskaloosa, Iowa, to criticize Ryan’s and Romney’s tax plan.
(TN) “You may have heard that Governor Romney just chose his running mate, Congressman Ryan.
He's a good man. He's a family man.
He's the ideological leader of the Republicans in Congress,” Obama said.
“And he's an articulate spokesperson for Governor Romney's views.
The problem is, those views are wrong.”
--- end FOX (w error) ----