--- start FOX----
Even for a Congress known to battle over every little detail, reading the U.S. Constitution aloud sounded like a simple exercise.
Turned out it wasn't.
Newly sworn members of the House reading aloud the country's founding document on Thursday didn't recite every verse and article of the document because Republicans decided that the obsolete parts can be skipped since they've been superseded by amendment.
For instance, lawmakers did not read the 18th Amendment, which imposed prohibition on liquor in 1919.
However, they did read the 21st Amendment, which repealed prohibition in 1933 and is still in force.
Republicans also left out the part about counting slaves and Native Americans as three-fifths of a person.
Portions of the U.S. Constitution are never deleted, just amended, as has been done 27 times in history.
But all the original decisions remain in the Constitution, including in the copies authorized by Congress' Joint Committee on Printing and used in Thursday's reading.
And that was the point of contention for Democratic lawmakers who complained that exempting parts of the document from the reading undermines the objective of the exercise.
"This is very emotional for me," Rep. Jesse Jackson Jr., D-Ill., said on the floor before the reading began.
"Given the struggle of African Americans, given the struggle of women, given the struggle of others to create a more perfect document, to hear that those elements of the Constitution that have been dedacted (sic) by amendment are no less serious, no less part of our ongoing struggle to improve the country and our desire to continue to improve the Constitution, many of us don't want that to be lost upon the reading of our sacred document," he said.
Rep. Jay Inslee, D-Wash., commented that the original document has been changed through amendment, leaving the the reader to interpret the operative language.
"I think it would be helpful to the members if you would explain to us how the determinations of what to read has been made or not made so that we all be on the same page as to congressional intent," he said to Rep. Bob Goodlatte, R-Va., who presided over the reading.
Rep. Elijah Cummings, D-Md., questioned the reading of the "amended" Constitution.
"To not read the full document, including all the text that was later amended, is to fail to acknowledge the struggle our nation has constantly fought, within and without, to 'keep' our Republic," he said in a written statement.
"It is a failure to show Americans that while we seek a more perfect union, we do so from imperfect beginnings, through an imperfect history, with an imperfect government created by an imperfect document," he added.
"We fail to show the American people that imperfection is not to be feared and that our ability to constantly improve on what the Founders gave us is a blessing, not a reason for divisiveness."
Other lawmakers decried the exercise altogether, saying the Constitution is a living document that shouldn't be followed to the letter.
"They are reading it like a sacred text," Rep. Jerrold Nadler, D-N.Y., the former chairman of the House Judiciary subcommittee on the Constitution, Civil Rights and Civil Liberties, told The Washington Post.
Nadler derided what he called the "ritualistic reading" as "total nonsense" and "propaganda" intended to give Republicans claim to the document.
He argued that the Founders were not "demigods" and that the document's needs for amendments to abolish slavery and other injustices showed it was "highly imperfect."
"You are not supposed to worship your Constitution," he told the newspaper.
"You are supposed to govern your government by it."
But for all those who described the exercise as political waste -- including Vanity Fair magazine, which estimated it as costing more than $1 million -- supporters noted that it was an historic moment -- the first time the U.S. Constitution had been read on the U.S. House floor.
"I think that this is a very symbolic showing to the American people and reminder to the members of congress that we are a government of laws not of men and that this Constitution is the foundation for all of our laws," Goodlatte said.
And backers said that it wouldn't hurt to try to live by the aspirations of the Founding Fathers.
"I don't think the Constitution is propaganda.
I think it's a valuable exercise and an important moment in this Congress for us to read the Constitution," said Rep. Steve Israel, D-N.Y.
"But I do think that you can't just read it like a speech and then leave skid marks on it in your legislative record."
Historian Alan Brinkley of Columbia University told Fox News the reading may be "a bit of theater," but it is "not insignificant given that many Republicans have decided -- implausibly, in my opinion -- that the Constitution is the vehicle that can reduce the size of government."
But Roger Pilon of the Cato Institute said Congress needs to re-read the Constitution to be reminded how out of control government has become.
"Today the Congress regulates our lives and redistributes our wealth in ways that would shock the Founders," he said.
"The Constitution, they wrote that to ensure limited government and they meant for most of us to live our lives free from government, in the private sector, planning and living our own lives, not as dependents on government goods and services."
Pilon added that the Founders never intended for the Constitution to be viewed as fluid advice.
"When liberals tell today that the Constitution is essentially a blank slate to be filled by transient majorities, nothing could be further from the truth.
If that were so, it would never have been ratified in the first place," he said.
As the Constitution was being read inside the lower chamber, Nadler and others gathered outside the Capitol to push for passage of the Equal Rights Amendment, a perennial effort to update the document with a statement on women.
"John Boehner and his cronies are holding up the U.S. Constitution as a sacred, perfect document.
But we know the Constitution is far from perfect because it does not guarantee women's equality," NOW President Terry O'Neill said in a statement.
--- end FOX----

--- start HPO----
WASHINGTON - And on the second day of Republican rule, the House read the Constitution.
Those wondering whether the reading would be dramatic found out on Thursday as volunteers gave voice to the seven articles and 27 amendments that make up the nation’s governing document.
Republicans have made strict adherence to the Constitution a key tenet of their effort to reduce the size of the federal government.
The House GOP will reportedly make it a requirement that all new bills put forth in the legislative body include “a statement by the lawmaker who wrote it citing the constitutional authority to enact the proposed legislation.”
The Washington Post reported last week that reading the founding document in full appears to be a first in the chamber’s 221-year history:
“Call it the tea party-ization of Congress. ...
These are two standout changes on a long list of new rules Republicans will institute in the House when they assume the majority on Jan. 5.
After handing out pocket-size Constitutions at rallies, after studying the document article by article and after demanding that Washington return to its founding principles, tea party activists have something new to applaud.
A pillar of their grass-roots movement will become a staple in the bureaucracy that governs Congress.”
Politics Daily recently reported:
“Beyond its symbolic power, however, it is unclear what impact the new rule will have upon the nation.
Under axiomatic legal precedent, virtually all congressional action is presumed valid anyway, at least initially.
Moreover, by taking their oaths of office, lawmakers swear to abide by the Constitution, and virtually all legislation is vetted for constitutional support on some level by government lawyers before it makes it to committee or to the floor of the House.
It is also quite obvious, from 223 years of legal and political debate on the topic, that the text of the Constitution itself, including those portions that deal with legislative power, is susceptible to many different (and often evolving) views and interpretations, a practical reality that would likely render most “Constitutional Authority Statements” controversial and contentious.”
According to Peter Keating at Vanity Fair, $1.1 million is the estimated cost of GOP plans to read the document on the House floor. 
“The amount I get is nearly $1.1 million.
$1,071,872.87, to be exact, though of course this is more back-of-the-envelope than exact.
When one chamber of Congress is in session but not working, we the people still have to pay for members’ salaries and expenses, and for their police protection, and for keeping their lights and phones and coffee machines on.”
“We always hear members of Congress talking about swearing an oath to represent their constituents, when in reality the only oath we take is to the Constitution,” explained newly-minted Speaker John Boehner to the Post.
“On November 2nd, voters called for an end to reckless spending and a renewed commitment to the Constitution,” said Rep. Michele Bachmann (R-Minn.), who has emerged a prominent voice of the Tea Party movement, to the Post.
“These new rules show that Republicans are serious about respecting the Constitution.”
Also on Thursday, the House is to take up its first spending cut measure, a proposed 5 percent trim in the budgets of leadership, rank-and-file member and committee offices.
Republicans have estimated that this will save $35 million over the next nine months.
--- end HPO----

--- start NYT (w error) ----
Setting the tone for the 112th Congress — in which every House bill must cite the constitutional source of its authority — members of the House of Representatives began to read the United States Constitution aloud from the chamber’s floor on Thursday morning.
Like the Constitutional Convention itself, things did not begin auspiciously.
Before the reading began, Jay Inslee, Democrat of Washington, asked Republicans to illuminate exactly what part of the Constitution would be read, what parts would be deleted and who would decide how things would unfold.
It was decided in advance that any portion of the Constitution that was superseded by amendments — including the amendments themselves — would not be read, preventing lawmakers from having to make references to slaves, referred to in Article 1, Section 2 as “three fifths of all other persons,” or to things like prohibition.
These inquiries about parliamentary procedure were not well received, and for several minutes, before a word of the preamble could be uttered, Democrats and Republicans battled back and forth over the issue of language, perhaps presaging future partisan battles over the meaning, purpose and application of the document.
Once that was settled, just after 11 a.m., Representative John A. Boehner, the newly installed speaker of the House, read the preamble (that magical “We the people”), before yielding to the woman who handed him the gavel on Wednesday, Representative Nancy Pelosi, who picked up with Article 1, Section 1 (“All legislative powers herein granted shall be vested in a Congress of the United States, which shall consist of a Senate and House of Representatives”), followed by Representative Eric Cantor, the House majority leader, and other House leaders.
From there, members who wished to read were recognized from their seats, beginning with Representative Steve Rothman, Democrat of New Jersey.
(TN) And so, sentence by sentence, in accents that reflect the myriad districts that did not even exist when the document came into being, by women and African Americans whose full rights were not recognized at that time, the constitutional language fluttered through the chamber.
At one point, there was yelling in the chamber, and the sergeant-at-arms was called to remove a protester.
The reading of the document on the floor of the House, an act that is part of the new rules package, serves several purposes, said Representative Robert W. Goodlatte, Republican of Virginia, who came up with the idea for the live reading.
Largely, it was meant to instruct members, who now must use it to underlie their bills, and to inform voters.
“Throughout the last year there has been a great debate about the expansion of the federal government, and lots of my constituents have said that Congress has gone beyond its powers granted in the Constitution,” said Mr. Goodlatte, a senior member of the House Judiciary Committee, which has jurisdiction over constitutional amendments.
He added: “I think it is important that we send a message to people at home that the constitution is an important document.”
But it was also clearly meant as a nod to the Tea Party, a loosely organized political movement whose members cite the Constitution as the basis for much of their political theory concerning federal powers and the rights and responsibilities of Congress.
To wit, the document reading happened on the same day that House Republicans began the contentious process of repealing the health care law, which they have long said lacks constitutional basis.
The order of reading was ironed out at the last minute, with the goal of letting all who wished to read do so, but making sure there was party parity, Mr. Goodlatte said.
“We have spread the word to everyone, and there was a lot of interest,” he said.
According to the Office of the Historian of the House of Representatives, the only two prior instances in which a full or partial text of the Constitution was inserted into the Congressional Record was in 1882, when Roswell Flower of New York “appended” a text of the Constitution — minus the amendments — into the record, and in 1915, when Thomas Reilly of Connecticut inserted the full text of the Constitution into the Congressional Record as an extension of his remarks.
But the office could not find any examples of the full text of the Constitution actually being read out loud on the House Floor.
--- end NYT (w error) ----