--- start HPO----
NRA School Safety Report Recommends Arming Teachers, Loosening Gun Laws
WASHINGTON -- Former Rep. Asa Hutchinson (R-Ark.) on Tuesday released a 225-page report on school safety funded by the National Rifle Association.
The report, commissioned in the wake of the Sandy Hook Elementary School shooting, recommended properly trained armed employees to provide "an important layer of security in schools."
The report was prepared by a 12-person task force, called the School Shield Program, led by Hutchinson.
At Tuesday's press conference, he stated that its findings were independent of the nation's largest gun lobby.
"Teachers should teach, but if there is personnel that has interest and is willing to go through 40 to 60 hours of [firearms] training, then schools should be willing to [arm them]," Hutchinson said.
He added that the report found that "local school authorities are in the best position" to determine their own school security measures, "specifically whether an armed security guard is necessary and supported by the education and citizen community."
The task force recommended that schools designate willing staff to be armed and trained, and it proposed a model training program, 40-60 hours per person, at what Hutchinson said would be a cost of about $800 to $1,000 per trained employee.
Armed school personnel, called school resource officers, would also be required to undergo a "background investigation, testing, and [have] relevant experience."
The committee didn't recommend any specific kind of firearm for school security, Hutchinson said, adding, "Everything from a sidearm, to a shotgun, to an AR-15" would work.
The task force also suggested that states loosen current legal restrictions on who can carry a firearm on school property.
Many states currently prohibit anyone but a law enforcement officer from possessing guns in a school.
Other recommendations included creating threat assessment teams at schools, better coordinating state and federal funding for school security, and offering an online assessment tool, so that administrators can evaluate their schools' potential security gaps.
Hutchinson's report and his press conference were both met with scathing criticism from the American Federation of Teachers, which supports broader gun control measures and strongly opposes arming educators.
In a statement, union President Randi Weingarten called the report "a cruel hoax that will fail to keep our children and schools safe," adding that the findings "are simply designed to assist gun manufacturers flood the nation and our schools with more guns."
The NRA also put out a statement on the report, over which the gun lobby insists it had no influence.
The NRA said it needs "time to digest" the findings, but it commended Hutchinson and his team for contributions that "will go a long way to making America's schools safer."
The report marks the culmination of a controversial process that began in December, when NRA CEO Wayne LaPierre held a press conference the week after the shooting in Newtown, Conn.
At the time, LaPierre assailed the media and gun control advocates for their responses to the massacre, and he proposed that armed volunteers protect schools and that gun-free school zones be eliminated.
The speech was widely considered a public relations disaster.
Hutchinson said Tuesday that the idea of armed volunteers was scrapped after it was met with "great reluctance" from school employees.
But the recommendation that states allow non-law enforcement officers, such as teachers and principals, to carry guns in schools would essentially eliminate gun-free school zones.
Asked about the current debate in Congress over gun control legislation, Hutchinson said he had "not dealt with the separate debate" because he had been too busy considering school safety issues.
He did, however, weigh in on state gun control efforts currently being debated in Connecticut, which include a ban on high-capacity magazines and a broader assault weapons ban.
Hutchinson called them "totally inadequate."
"You can address assault weapons, but it doesn't stop violence in schools.
So if you're going to protect children, you have to do something about enhancing school safety," he said.
Hutchinson also encouraged the NRA to continue funding pilot programs to train school employees to carry weapons.
When he had finished introducing the report, Hutchinson called up Mark Mattioli, whose 6-year-old son, James Mattioli, was killed in December along with 19 other children at Sandy Hook Elementary School.
Mattioli praised the NRA "for coming up and spending the time and resources on putting a program like this together."
--- end HPO----

--- start NYT----
Report Sees Guns as Path to Safety in Schools
WASHINGTON — With the Senate set to debate gun control this month, a National Rifle Association task force released a 225-page report on Tuesday that called for armed police officers, security guards or staff members in every American school, and urged states to loosen gun restrictions to allow trained teachers and administrators to carry weapons.
Asa Hutchinson, a former Republican congressman from Arkansas who led the task force, unveiled the report at a packed news conference with unusually heavy security, including a bomb-sniffing yellow Labrador retriever.
A dozen officers in plain clothes and uniforms stood watch as he spoke; one warned photographers to “remain stationary” during the event.
Among the study’s central conclusions is that “the presence of armed security personnel adds a layer of security and diminishes response time” in a shooting, Mr. Hutchinson said.
He cited a 1997 Mississippi case in which an assistant principal ran to his truck to retrieve a .45-caliber semiautomatic pistol and subdued a gunman who had killed two students.
The recommendations — which also included expanding the police presence in schools — drew immediate criticism from gun control advocates and many Democrats, who have been fighting to tighten gun restrictions after the massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Conn., in December.
“Arming the teacher is merely a response to the last tragedy,” said Representative Mike Thompson, a California Democrat who is chairman of a House task force on gun violence.
“The one before that was in a shopping mall in Oregon, and the one before that was in a movie theater in Colorado.
I don’t think the proper response is to arm all the projectionists in the movie theaters or all the vendors in the mall.”
After the Newtown shooting, Wayne LaPierre, the rifle association’s executive director, announced that it would devise a plan to put armed guards in every school.
Technically, Mr. Hutchison’s task force is independent of the rifle association, even though it paid for the study, and Mr. LaPierre was not present on Tuesday.
But critics see no distinction between the two.
Marian Wright Edelman, president of the Children’s Defense Fund, an advocacy group here, criticized the study as “nothing more than a continuation of the N.R.A.’s attempts to prey on America’s fears, saturate our schools with more guns and turn them into armed fortresses.”
But the report did get support from at least one Newtown parent: Mark Mattioli, whose 6-year-old son, James, was killed.
“I think politics needs to be set aside here, and I hope this doesn’t lead to name-calling,” said Mr. Mattioli, who joined Mr. Hutchinson at the news conference.
“This is a recommendation for solutions, real solutions that will make our kids safer.
That’s what we need.”
At least one state, Indiana, is considering the idea of armed officers at schools.
On Tuesday, a proposal that would require public and charter schools to have an armed “protection officer” on school property during class hours passed a State House committee.
The task force panel called on the Departments of Homeland Security, Education and Justice to coordinate school safety efforts and provide grant money for schools to assess their ability to prevent and respond to attacks.
It recommended that officers or employees who are armed take a 40- to 60-hour training course to be developed by the rifle association based on a model the task force has designed.
The group also called on states to require schools to develop security plans.
But how and whether the task force recommendations will be put into effect — and the cost — was unclear.
The timing of Tuesday’s announcement was not a coincidence: Congress will wrap up its spring recess after this week and is expected to consider gun legislation after lawmakers return.
President Obama has called for tough new controls on gun ownership, but the prospects for such legislation are murky — a testimony to the rifle association’s prowess as a lobbying force.
A plan to revive and revamp a ban on assault weapons, which expired in 2004, is almost certain to be defeated.
Mr. Obama is pushing for a measure that would impose mandatory background checks for gun buyers, and the Senator Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada, the majority leader, has promised to present a bill that would expand background checks to the floor for a vote.
--- end NYT----

--- start FOX (w error) ----
NRA urges states to allow more armed officers in schools
The National Rifle Association called Tuesday for state legislatures to allow more school personnel to carry weapons on school grounds once they've gone through extensive training, as part of a set of recommendations that capped a weeks-long review in the wake of the Newtown mass shooting.
The NRA initially took criticism from Democrats for focusing so closely on school security, and rejecting gun control measures, following the Connecticut shooting in which 26 people were killed.
NRA CEO Wayne LaPierre in December called for armed officers to be installed in every school in the country.
Former Arkansas Rep. Asa Hutchinson, who led the NRA's review, appeared to ease off slightly on the call for armed officers in every school -- he said it's "important" for every school to have at least one, but acknowledged these decisions are "locally made" based on unique budget circumstances.
Hutchinson, though, did call for the creation of a 40-60 hour training program for armed officers.
To accompany that, his group proposed a "model" state law that would allow certain personnel who have undergone this training to carry weapons on school grounds.
"This is not talking about all teachers," he said.
"Teachers should teach."
The 225-page report also called for states to require schools to conduct a safety assessment and for a pilot program to be created assessing mental health as a pre-indicator for violence.
Mark Mattioli, the father of one Newtown shooting victim, also spoke after Hutchinson's announcement to applaud the review effort.
The review comes as Congress and a number of state legislatures pursue gun control legislation.
(TN) While a few have focused on school security -- South Dakota has already approved legislation allowing for teachers to be armed -- many have concentrated on enacting or expanding assault weapons bans, strengthening background checks and passing other measures to restrict access to firearms.
Connecticut, the home of the Sandy Hook school shooting, is the latest to advance a sweeping gun control proposal -- lawmakers announced a deal Monday on a package that is likely to win approval.
But LaPierre in December argued that improving school security is paramount.
He argued that if banks and members of Congress can have protection, schools across America should be afforded the same security.
"It's now time for us to assume responsibly for our schools," he said.
"The only way to stop a monster from killing our kids is to be permanently involved and invested in a plan of absolute protection."
He added: "The only thing that stops a bad guy with a gun is a good guy with a gun."
--- end FOX (w error) ----