--- start FOX----
It looks like President Trump is having a change of heart when it comes to his recent decision to lift the ban on importing elephant trophies from Africa.
In a tweet on Friday night, Trump said he decided to put the "big game trophy decision on hold.”
The comment comes less than 48 hours after it was first announced that the Trump administration would reverse a 2014 ban made under President Obama on permits for elephant trophies from Zambia and Zimbabwe.
Secretary of the Interior Ryan Zinke echoed Trump's comment in his own tweet, saying that he and the president had spoken and "both believe that conservation & healthy herds are critical...the issuing of permits is put on hold..."
It was not immediately clear why Trump made the announcement, but it came on the same day as the top Republican on the House Foreign Affairs Committee called on the Trump administration to reverse its newly announced policy, labeling it the "wrong move at the wrong time."
California Rep. Ed Royce on Friday questioned the action because of concerns not only about African wildlife but U.S. national security, citing the political upheaval in Zimbabwe, where the longtime president was placed under house arrest this week by the military.
"The administration should withdraw this decision until Zimbabwe stabilizes," the committee chairman said in a statement.
"Elephants and other big game in Africa are blood currency for terrorist organizations, and they are being killed at an alarming rate.
Stopping poaching isn't just about saving the world's most majestic animals for the future — it's about our national security."
Royce said that when carefully regulated, conservation hunts could help the wildlife population, but "that said, this is the wrong move at the wrong time."
The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service said in a written notice issued Thursday that permitting elephants from Zimbabwe and Zambia to be brought back as trophies will raise money for conservation programs.
The change marks a shift in efforts to stop the importation of elephant tusks and hides, overriding a 2014 ban imposed by the Obama administration.
The newly announced policy applies to the remains of African elephants killed between January 2016 and December 2018.
"Legal, well-regulated sport hunting as part of a sound management program can benefit certain species by providing incentives to local communities to conserve those species and by putting much-needed revenue back into conservation," the agency said in a statement.
The illicit demand for elephant ivory has led to devastating losses from illegal poaching as the natural habitat available for the animals to roam has also dwindled by more than half.
As a result, the number of African elephants has shrunk from about 5 million a century ago to about 400,000 remaining.
And that number continues to decline each year.
Two other lawmakers, Rep. Vern Buchanan, R-Fla., and Rep. Earl Blumenauer, D-Ore., co-chairs of the Congressional Animal Protection Caucus, assailed the administration's decision.
--- end FOX----

--- start NYT----
WASHINGTON — President Trump on Friday reversed the government’s decision to start allowing hunters to import trophies of elephants that were killed in two African countries, pending a further review.
His evening Twitter message reversed a decision by his own administration over Zimbabwe that was announced this week and promoted as recently as Friday afternoon by the White House press secretary, Sarah Huckabee Sanders.
“Put big game trophy decision on hold until such time as I review all conservation facts,” Mr. Trump tweeted.
“Under study for years. Will update soon with Secretary Zinke. Thank you!”
Ryan Zinke, the interior secretary, said in a statement later Friday night that the decision applied to two African countries, though it did not name them.
“President Trump and I have talked, and both believe that conservation and healthy herds are critical,” the statement said.
“As a result, in a manner compliant with all applicable laws, rules and regulations, the issuing of permits is being put on hold as the decision is being removed.”
The United States Fish and Wildlife Service had signaled its intention to end the 2014 ban, citing Zimbabwe’s conservation efforts.
On Thursday, the service announced on its website that it would begin issuing permits to allow the import of elephants hunted from 2016 to 2018, with two trophies allowed per import.
Nearly two weeks ago, the department also waived the ban in a similar manner for Zambia.
Zambia and Zimbabwe have had mixed success in recent years maintaining or increasing their elephant population, according to the Great Elephant Census, a project financed by Paul G. Allen, a founder of Microsoft.
The project also found that the African elephant population shrunk nearly 30 percent from 2007 to 2014.
It is unclear why Mr. Trump reversed the decision, but the announcement faced backlash from both conservatives and liberals.
Laura Ingraham, a Fox News host, said Thursday on Twitter that she did not understand how the decision would not “INCREASE the gruesome poaching of elephants,” while the comedian Ellen DeGeneres started an online campaign, using the hashtag #BeKindToElephants, to raise funds for elephant conservation efforts.
On social media, photos were being shared of Mr. Trump’s two elder sons hunting on safari in Zimbabwe, including one photo that showed Donald Trump Jr. with a severed elephant tail in one hand and a knife in the other.
The White House argued that the hunting would bring money to local communities and incentivize efforts to protect elephants.
In defending the decision on Friday, Ms. Sanders cited a recently completed Park Service review that had begun during the Obama administration.
“This review established that both Zambia and Zimbabwe had met new standards, strict international conservation standards that allowed Americans to resume hunting in those countries,” she told reporters during a news briefing.
Under President Barack Obama, the practice had been banned because of a lack of data on conservation efforts in Zimbabwe.
Safari Club International, a trophy-hunting organization that sued the Obama administration in 2014 in an effort to challenge the ban and was the first to report the policy change on Tuesday, lashed out against the news media and “anti-hunters” for swaying the Trump administration to lift the trophy ban.
“The fight for the freedom to hunt is far from over,” Paul Babaz, the organization’s president, said in a statement.
“We will be more proactive and not back down.”
But environmental groups applauded the reversal on Friday and called for more restrictions on trophy hunting, which has faced increased scrutiny, especially after an American dentist killed Cecil, a lion beloved in Zimbabwe, in 2015.
“It’s great that public outrage has forced Trump to reconsider this despicable decision,” said Tanya Sanerib, a senior lawyer with the Center for Biological Diversity, “but it takes more than a tweet to stop trophy hunters from slaughtering elephants and lions.”
Ms. Sanders also confirmed Friday that a near-total ban on the commercial trade of African elephant ivory enforced during the Obama administration would remain in place.
--- end NYT----

--- start HPO (w error) ----
WASHINGTON — Two days after suddenly halting his own administration’s decision to begin allowing hunters to import elephants killed in two African countries, President Donald Trump called such trophy hunting a “horror show” and said he’s unlikely to change his mind and allow such imports.
“Big-game trophy decision will be announced next week but will be very hard pressed to change my mind that this horror show in any way helps conservation of Elephants or any other animal,” he posted to Twitter Sunday evening.
In the face of widespread public backlash, Tump announced late Friday that he has suspended — at least for now — his administration’s decision to reverse an Obama-era ban on the importation of elephant trophies from Zimbabwe and Zambia.
“Put big game trophy decision on hold until such time as I review all conservation facts,” he posted to Twitter.
He adding that the issue has been “under study for years” but that he would provide an update after additional review.
Interior Secretary Ryan Zinke said in a statement on Twitter that he and Trump “believe that conservation & healthy herds are critical.”
As HuffPost reported Wednesday, the administration optedto lift the 2014 ban after determining that sport hunting of elephants in those African countries would “enhance the survival of the species in the wild,” a spokesperson for the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service said.
It also recently rolled back protections for African lions, releasing new guidelines that allow big game hunters to bring back to the U.S. animal trophies from hunts in parts of Africa.
The decision regarding elephants was made public not by the federal agency but via a celebratory news release early Tuesday from Safari Club International, a trophy hunting advocacy group that, along with the National Rifle Association, sued to block the 2014 ban.
Greg Sheehan, principal deputy director of the FWS, broke the news to the hunting organization during the African Wildlife Consultative Forum in Tanzania, an agency spokesperson told HuffPost.
The forum, which ended Friday, was hosted by the Safari Club International Foundation and the United Republic of Tanzania.
The Safari Club’s political action committees donated a collective $24,500 to Trump’s presidential campaign and Zinke’s 2014 and 2016 congressional campaigns, according to Federal Election Commission data.
Zinke is a former Montana congressman and Navy SEAL.
Conservation groups celebrated Trump’s sudden change in course Friday, which was believed to be a response to public pressure.
“It’s great that public outrage has forced Trump to reconsider this despicable decision, but it takes more than a tweet to stop trophy hunters from slaughtering elephants and lions,” Tanya Sanerib, senior attorney with the Center for Biological Diversity, said in a statement.
“We need immediate federal action to reverse these policies and protect these amazing animals.”
In a post to Twitter, Wayne Pacelle, the CEO of The Humane Society of the United States, said he was “grateful” that Trump would reconsider.
“This is the kind of trade we don’t need.”
The elephant trophy decision drew national headlines and a fierce response from celebrities and others across social media.
(TN) Talk-show host Ellen DeGeneres launched a campaign called #BeKindToElephants.
By lifting the ban, she said, Trump was “encouraging Americans to kill elephants.”
A day after Trump’s suspension, the Safari Club sent out a “call to arms,” encouraging hunters to contact Trump and Zinke and “tell them how much you appreciate the efforts of the Fish & Wildlife Service to remove barriers to sustainable use conservation for African wildlife.”
And they blasted “hysterical anti-hunters and news media outlets.”
“The news from Africa could not have been better for hunters or for anyone who loves or defends hunting culture,” the group wrote.
African elephants have been listed as threatened under the Endangered Species Act since 1978.
A provision of the law, however, allows for sport-hunted trophies to be imported if the government determines that hunting will help safeguard the population.
The FWS concluded that Zimbabwe has made strides to improve elephant management and anti-poaching efforts, according to a notice published Friday in the Federal Register.
Rep. Ed Royce (R-Calif.), chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, was among the many people who called on Trump to abandon his trophy hunting decision.
In a Friday statement, Royce pointed to the unrest in Zimbabwe — where a military coup is thought to be unfolding — and said he has no confidence that the regime is properly managing conservation programs.
“Elephants and other big game in Africa are blood currency for terrorist organizations, and they are being killed at an alarming rate,” Royce said.
“Stopping poaching isn’t just about saving the world’s most majestic animals for the future ― it’s about our national security.”
Hours before Trump’s review announcement, the FWS defended its decision as “part of a robust United States conservation strategy that seeks to eliminate poaching and associated wildlife trafficking.”
--- end HPO (w error) ----