--- start HPO----
FERGUSON, Mo. -- Attorney General Eric Holder said Wednesday that the “eyes of the nation and the world” are on this small suburb of St. Louis where an unarmed teenager was shot and killed by police earlier this month.
The issues raised by Michael Brown's death, Holder said, have simmered “beneath the surface in more communities than just Ferguson.”
On Thursday, he told reporters in Washington that the Justice Department would thoroughly investigate the case, and would "continue to stand with Ferguson."
He also said that "few things have affected me as greatly as my trip to Ferguson."
Before a larger meeting at St. Louis Community College–Florissant Valley on Wednesday, the attorney general met with several students at the local school in what he described as an “opportunity to sit down with some wonderful young people and to hear them talk about the mistrust they have at a young age.”
Dominique McCoy, who attended the smaller meeting, told The Huffington Post that Holder said change wouldn't happen overnight.
"He just let us speak, basically.
He semi-voiced his opinion, but we all did the talking.
He agreed somewhat to what everyone said,” McCoy added.
A separate attendee, Molyrik Welch, noted to another reporter that her brother had died following an encounter with Ferguson police in 2011.
Holder told the students he understands "the mistrust" between some residents and the police.
“I am the attorney general of the United States, but I am also a black man," Holder said.
Holder told others at the community college how he had been stopped on the New Jersey Turnpike and accused of speeding twice in the past, with police searching his car.
"I remember how humiliating that was and how angry I was and the impact it had on me," Holder said.
"The same kid who got stopped on the New Jersey freeway is now the attorney general of the United States," Holder added.
"This country is capable of change. But change doesn't happen by itself."
After the college events, Holder headed over to Drake's Place restaurant in Ferguson to talk with other community members.
Some people were told that they would be meeting with an official from the Justice Department, but not that it was Holder.
The owners of the restaurant said they were informed of the event only about an hour ahead of time.
The Justice Department’s Community Relations Service had arranged for the gatherings.
Holder was greeted as a star at Drake's Place, posing for selfies and group photos with residents and shaking hands.
He settled into a corner booth as residents explained the problems that need to be rectified.
Soon, Capt. Ron Johnson of the Missouri State Highway Patrol, who has earned some praise since he took over policing of Ferguson's nightly protests, stopped by to greet the attorney general.
“My man! You are the man,” Holder said as Johnson walked in.
After the meeting, attendees said they were thankful that Holder and the federal government were paying attention to Ferguson’s problems.
“He told me that he was here because he was concerned about everything that was going on and he wanted us to voice our opinions and what did we want to change, and that he was going back to the White House to report so we can get some funding, so we can get a game plan on how to help our community,” Angela Whitman told HuffPost.
Yvette Townsend-Saunders called the meeting “wonderful” and said she was thankful that Holder had come to the town.
“He said that there needs to be some changes made, things need to be looked into and investigated,” Townsend-Saunders said.
“When you were a little boy and you didn’t do something well at school, your mother had to jump in.
When the teacher didn’t do something right, the principal had to jump in.
I think if you do something right from the bottom, the top doesn’t have to jump in.
If things were done right in the beginning, all this wouldn’t have to be.”
“We didn’t know it was Eric Holder [coming],” Rev. John Paul Hopping of Our Lady of Guadalupe, told HuffPost.
“They were really nice and they were really listening.
They’re looking for solutions and they want to help.”
At the community college, Holder said that they were starting “a good dialogue” but that it was “not enough.”
“We need concrete action to change things in this country,” he said, according to excerpts provided by the Justice Department.
"This dialogue is important. But it can't simply be that we have a conversation that begins based on what happened on August 9 and ends sometime in December, and nothing happens.
As I was just telling these young people, change is possible.
The same kid who got stopped on the New Jersey freeway is now the attorney general of the United States.
This country is capable of change. But change doesn't happen by itself.”
In addition to Ferguson community members, Holder spent Wednesday meeting with officials from the St. Louis-based U.S. attorney's office and the local FBI office investigating Brown's death.
He is talking with Brown's parents and with members of the local congressional delegation.
--- end HPO----

--- start NYT----
FERGUSON, Mo. — Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. arrived in St. Louis on Wednesday, meeting with community leaders and federal investigators even as local law enforcement officials said they were hopeful that they had turned a corner in calming the restive community of Ferguson after 12 days of protests and unrest.
Mr. Holder’s first stop was at a community college, where he met with people who told him about their own personal experiences with the local police, some of which they said helped fuel the rage that was ultimately ignited by the shooting of an unarmed black teenager by a white police officer on Aug. 9.
There were more protests planned throughout the day and into the evening, but Capt. Ronald S. Johnson of the Missouri State Highway Patrol said he believed they had reached “a turning point.”
Captain Johnson, whose agency is overseeing security here, said there were only sporadic problems on Tuesday night, and none of the wide-scale looting and confrontations that had erupted on other nights.
Still, the police did make 47 arrests overnight.
As the tension on the street seemed to ease, the focus turned to the investigation into the shooting death of Michael Brown.
A grand jury has been convened and was scheduled to meet Wednesday to begin hearing evidence, said Edward Magee, a spokesman for Robert P. McCulloch, the prosecuting attorney for St. Louis County.
Protesters gathered outside Mr. McCulloch’s office on Wednesday, calling for him to step aside.
They argued that he could not be impartial because his father, a police officer, was shot and killed by a black man while on duty when Mr. McCulloch was a child.
Mr. McCulloch, speaking to a local radio station, categorically rejected that notion.
“I know the pain the Brown family is going through right now,” he said.
He said he has only one interest: conducting a fair and thorough investigation.
But he acknowledged that Gov. Jay Nixon of Missouri has the power to appoint a new prosecutor.
“Anyone who wants me off the case needs to call up the governor and express their opinion to him,” Mr. McCulloch told KTRS radio.
By failing to act, Mr. McCulloch said, the governor “undermines everything except the cover he has pulled over his head.”
He told him to “man up” and make a decision so that the case will not be further delayed.
Mr. Magee cautioned that it could take weeks for the grand jury to consider all of the evidence.
He said that Officer Darren Wilson, who shot Mr. Brown, had been interviewed by police investigators and would be given the opportunity to testify.
The Justice Department, meanwhile, has started a separate inquiry.
More than 40 F.B.I. agents have been dispatched to Ferguson, and Mr. Holder said they are not only investigating the shooting but also looking for any broad patterns of civil rights violations.
In an open letter to the people of Ferguson, Mr. Holder said he understood the desire of residents for an “independent” inquiry.
“This is my pledge to the people of Ferguson: Our investigation into this matter will be full, it will be fair, and it will be independent,” Mr. Holder wrote in The St. Louis Post-Dispatch.
“And beyond the investigation itself, we will work with the police, civil rights leaders, and members of the public to ensure that this tragedy can give rise to new understanding — and robust action — aimed at bridging persistent gaps between law enforcement officials and the communities we serve.”
The frustrations in the community have been fueled in part by the slow pace with which the authorities have released information.
In a sign of just how deep the distrust runs, there were three separate autopsies performed on Mr. Brown’s body: one by the county medical examiner, one by a private pathologist hired by the family, and one by federal authorities.
In addition to the many lingering questions about the shooting, the local authorities have also come under criticism for how they have handled the protests.
Norm Stamper, the former Seattle police chief who was in charge during the protests that rocked that city in 1999, said that the wrong tone was set from the first day in Ferguson.
“The basic perspective that I have over this whole thing, dating back to the shooting incident itself, what we had were largely peaceful vigils and protests that were met with police tactics that were highly aggressive and militaristic,” he said.
“That response ignited what we have seen all week.”
He reserved his harshest criticism for the use of tear gas by the police — a mistake he said he made in Seattle and one he regrets to this day.
Since the first day of protests in Ferguson, the authorities shifted their response almost daily, adding to the sense that the situation was out of control.
On one day, protesters were told to gather in one place. Another day, they were told to keep moving.
Then a curfew was imposed. The next night, there was no curfew.
The local police were in control; then another unit took over.
The National Guard was finally brought in to try to temper the unrest, but its role was not exactly clear.
“You get governors and police chiefs and everyone gnashing their teeth,” Mr. Stamper said.
“Even the protesters are commenting on that: what are they doing?”
On Tuesday night, however, it seemed that some of that energy had gone from the streets.
And the police also seemed more restrained, refraining from using tear gas.
The evening began in a familiar fashion: Demonstrators marched along the street and chanted “Hands up! Don’t shoot!” and other slogans that have become common here since Mr. Brown’s death.
The authorities made at least 47 arrests after demonstrators tossed bottles toward police officers, some of whom used pepper spray to subdue some protesters.
In some instances, teams of officers abruptly entered the crowd, detained a single person whom they had apparently focused on, and returned to West Florissant Avenue, where many of the recent confrontations have occurred.
Although law enforcement officers in riot gear eyed the protesters while a police helicopter occasionally circled the city, there were no signs of trouble for long stretches of the evening.
When a demonstration ended shortly before midnight, many of the demonstrators prayed.
“Now that’s what I call a good protest,” Jonathan Smith, 45, said.
“Ending in a prayer, no gas in the air.”
--- end NYT----

--- start FOX (w error) ----
Attorney General Eric Holder said Wednesday that he understands why many black Americans distrust the police as he made a one-day swing through the St. Louis suburb of Ferguson, Mo., where a black teenager was fatally shot by a white police officer almost two weeks earlier.
Holder made the comments during a meeting with about 50 community leaders at the Florissant campus of St. Louis Community College in which he heard about their own issues with law enforcement officials.
Ferguson has endured more than a week of unrest since the August 9 death of 18-year-old Michael Brown, who was shot by Ferguson Police Officer Darren Wilson.
The Obama administration intended the trip to underscore its commitment to civil rights in general and the Ferguson case in particular.
"I understand that mistrust," Holder said.
"I am the attorney general of the United States. But I am also a black man."
The attorney general then described how he was stopped twice on the New Jersey Turnpike and accused of speeding.
Police searched his car, going through the trunk and looking under the seats.
"I remember how humiliating that was and how angry I was and the impact it had on me," Holder said.
Holder also described how once, while living in the Georgetown neighborhood of Washington, he was running to catch a movie with his cousin when a squad car rolled up and flashed its lights at the pair.
The officer yelled, "Where are you going? Hold it!" Holder recalled.
His cousin "started mouthing off," and Holder urged him to be quiet.
"We negotiate the whole thing, and we walk to our movie.
At the time that he stopped me, I was a federal prosecutor. I wasn't a kid," he said.
While in Ferguson, Holder met with federal officials investigating the case, as well as Brown's parents.
He also met with Missouri Highway Patrol Capt. Ron Johnson, who has been in charge of security in Ferguson for nearly a week.
The National Guard is also helping to keep the peace.
(TN) On Wednesday night, a diminished number of protesters marched around a single block in Ferguson as a thunderstorm filled the sky with lighting and dumped rain.
Police still stood guard, but many wore regular uniforms rather than riot gear.
Johnson said there were six arrests Wednesday, compared to 47 the previous night.
He called it "a very good night," and said Holder's visit had let people know their voices had been heard.
In nearby Clayton, a grand jury began hearing evidence to determine whether Wilson should be charged in Brown's death.
A spokesman for St. Louis County Prosecutor Bob McCulloch said there was no timeline for the process, but it could take weeks.
Outside the St. Louis County Justice Center, where the grand jury convened, two dozen protesters gathered in a circle for a prayer, chanted and held signs urging McCulloch to step aside.
McCulloch's deep family connections to police have been cited by some black leaders who question his ability to be impartial in the case.
McCulloch's father, mother, brother, uncle and cousin all worked for the St. Louis Police Department, and his father was killed while responding to a call involving a black suspect.
The prosecutor, who is white, has insisted his background will have no bearing on the handling of the Brown case, which has touched off days of nighttime protests during which authorities used tear gas and rubber bullets to clear the streets.
On Wednesday, police said an officer had been suspended for pointing a semi-automatic assault rifle at demonstrators, then cursing and threatening to kill one of them.
A protester captured the exchange on video Tuesday and posted it to YouTube and other websites.
--- end FOX (w error) ----