--- start HPO----
Controversial Arizona Sheriff Joe Arpaio announced on Tuesday he will officially endorse Texas Governor Rick Perry for the Republican presidential nomination, which could give Perry something of a credibility boost on immigration and border issues.
Arpaio is a hardliner on immigration, leading a push in Maricopa County for more enforcement.
He is famous for pushing worksite raids and creating a "Tent City," a military-style holding ground for inmates, now in its eighteenth year.
His endorsement of Perry comes after the candidate was criticized for his immigration platform, which rests on the idea that deportation of all 11 million undocumented immigrants in the country is impractical and unlikely.
Perry also opposes a full border fence, although he calls for more enforcement along the southwest border with Mexico.
"The federal government has failed on border crime and border enforcement, and no candidate for president has done more to secure the border than Governor Rick Perry," Arpaio said in a statement.
"I have been watching Governor Perry and Texas closely and know his border surge operations with state, local and federal law enforcement officials have helped shut down the illegal trafficking of weapons, drugs and people.
I'm endorsing Rick Perry because we need a tough-on-crime president who will champion and fund full-time border security operations from Brownsville to San Diego.
Governor Perry has a superior border security record and plan to make our border and our nation safer."
Perry said in a statement that if elected president, he would "secure the border within a year."
As Texas governor, he directed funds to enforcement along the border and requested more National Guard troops from President Barack Obama.
"Sheriff Arpaio knows the struggle border states face as Washington politicians and bureaucrats fail time and again to properly secure our nation's southern boundary with Mexico," Perry said in a statement.
"I am honored to have Sheriff Arpaio's support for my presidential campaign and our shared goals of fighting border crime with more personnel, border fencing and surveillance.
A secure border is vital to protecting America's national security, public safety and jobs.
As president, I will secure the border within a year putting thousands more federal boots on the ground, strategic fencing and aerial resources to fight border crime and make our states and nation safer."
Arpaio endorsed Mitt Romney in 2008, choosing him over eventual nominee and fellow Arizonan John McCain.
He held a joint press conference with Herman Cain in October after the two met to discuss immigration enforcement.
--- end HPO----

--- start NYT----
AMHERST, N.H. — Gov. Rick Perry of Texas on Tuesday said he would back a federal policy “to detain and to deport every illegal alien that we apprehend.”
Mr. Perry, in his most expansive comments about illegal immigration since last week’s Republican presidential debate, was not suggesting any rounding up of illegal immigrants, an aide later made clear, but calling for all people arrested or detained — and later found to be undocumented — to be expelled from the country after an expedited hearing.
The candidate sought to draw a contrast with the Obama administration, which he criticized as having a “catch-and-release” policy that allows some nonviolent illegal immigrants to be released back into the general public.
It’s a “horrific policy,” Mr. Perry said.
Backers of the policy say it allows officials to focus resources on deporting illegal immigrants who have been convicted of serious crimes or who are a threat to the public safety or the national interest.
With a little more than a month to go before the New Hampshire primary, the Texas governor is trying to shore up his credentials on immigration: On Tuesday he won an endorsement from one of the nation’s most outspoken and controversial public officials on that issue: Sheriff Joe Arpaio of Maricopa County, Ariz., who unabashedly calls himself the “toughest sheriff” in the country.
Appearing at Joey’s Diner here, in the southern end of the state, Mr. Arpaio, who had also been courted by Representative Michele Bachmann and Herman Cain, praised what he called Mr. Perry’s efforts to interdict illegal crossings by sending Texas Rangers and other state law enforcement to the Texas border with Mexico.
“He doesn’t just talk about it; he does something about it,” Mr. Arpaio said.
Mr. Perry was widely criticized within his own party for backing a state plan that gives some children of illegal immigrants the same lower-cost in-state college tuition that is enjoyed by American citizens who attend the state’s public universities and who have been Texas residents at least three years.
At one point he suggested that those who opposed his position were heartless.
On Tuesday he repeated his apology for that comment, calling it “very inappropriate,” his latest effort to try to win back some Republican primary voters who abandoned him as rivals sought to paint him as too soft on illegal immigration.
But it remains to be seen how much an endorsement from Sheriff Arpaio will help him in this state, where Mr. Perry is polling far behind the leader, Mitt Romney.
According to one recent poll, immigration was cited by only 4 percent of likely Republican voters as the most important issue.
Mr. Arpaio is also a polarizing figure.
Last year, the Justice Department filed a lawsuit against the sheriff for not cooperating with an investigation into whether the Maricopa County Sheriff’s Department is systematically violating the rights of Hispanics.
It was the first time in a generation, according to officials, that the federal government has filed suit to force a law enforcement agency to cooperate with such an investigation.
The sheriff has called the Justice Department’s action an attempt to intimidate him and he has said he does not engage in racial profiling.
Mr. Arpaio, who gained wide notice for forcing inmates to wear pink underwear and housing them in tents, is popular in his state, where he has repeatedly won re-election by a sizable margin.
Even so, there are signs that the state’s aggressive immigration policies have begun to turn off some: Earlier this month a longtime Arpaio ally, Arizona State Sen. Russell Pearce, was defeated in a recall election by a more moderate Republican.
Mr. Pearce had pushed through a controversial law last year that would have turned police officers throughout the state into de facto immigration agents.
The Justice Department is fighting the law, which has not taken effect yet.
On Tuesday, Mr. Perry signaled that he would not support the continuation of that lawsuit if he were elected president, saying that the federal government should not “be suing states for making decisions that they think” are in the best interests of their citizens.
--- end NYT----

--- start FOX (w error) ----
Arizona Sheriff Joe Arpaio, known for his tough and controversial stances on illegal immigration, endorsed three term Texas Governor Rick Perry for the Republican presidential nomination on Tuesday morning during a campaign swing with Mr. Perry through New Hampshire.
The self-titled America's Toughest Sheriff, who famously re-instituted chain gangs in 1995 and has also been a major supporter of his state's controversial SB1070 immigration law, said that Perry has done more to combat illegal immigration along the U.S. border then any of the other candidates.
(TN) "I'm endorsing Rick Perry because we need a tough-on-crime president who will champion and fund full-time border security operations from Brownsville to San Diego," Arpaio said.
"Governor Perry has a superior border security record and plan to make our border and our nation safer."
"Sheriff Arpaio knows the struggle border states face as Washington politicians and bureaucrats fail time and again to properly secure our nation's southern boundary with Mexico," said Gov. Perry.
"I am honored to have Sheriff Arpaio's support for my presidential campaign and our shared goals of fighting border crime with more personnel, border fencing and surveillance.
A secure border is vital to protecting America's national security, public safety and jobs."
The endorsement from Arpaio could prove helpful to Perry who has faced criticism about his stance on immigration from the Right for his support of DREAM children.
The illegal immigration issue has also been a hotbed for clashes between Perry and GOP presidential candidate and former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney.
Romney has said that Perry provided a magnet for undocumented immigrants to settle in Texas by supporting a law that allows people who are in the country unlawfully to attend public colleges at in-state tuition rates.
"You said I don't want to build a fence," Romney said.
"You talk about magnets -- you put in place a magnet."
Perry has also said the federal government should extend work visas permitting undocumented immigrants to move freely between the U.S. and their home countries, but stressed that he still opposes amnesty or a path to citizenship.
"As president, I will secure the border within a year putting thousands more federal boots on the ground, strategic fencing and aerial resources to fight border crime and make our states and nation safer," Perry said.
--- end FOX (w error) ----