--- start FOX----
Republican National Committee Chairman Michael Steele will speak with RNC members Monday evening in which he is expected to announce a decision about whether to make another run for the party chairmanship.
A handful of well-placed and influential RNC insiders tell Fox News they expect Steele to announce he is not running for re-election.
But Steele has been unpredictable, especially over recent weeks, and some close to the GOP chairman say he wants to run for another term and is struggling to find enough support for a second term.
Fox News confirmed Steele sent an e-mail to committee members Saturday night with the subject line, "conference call."
In the note, he asked members to join him "for a private conference call" Monday evening.
Republicans picked up 63 seats in the House, narrowed the gap in the Senate and picked up 19 state legislative bodies in the November midtem election, but pressure has been mounting all year for Steele to step down from the position.
Critics have described the chairman as gaffe-prone and said he hasn't raised enough money.
The criticism has resulted in an array of challenges or potential challenges for Steele's job from Wisconsin Republican Party Chairman Reince Priebus, former RNC Co-Chairwoman Ann Wagner, longtime Republican official Maria Cino, former Michigan Republican Party Chairman Saul Anuzis and former RNC Political Director Gentry Collins.
The fierce competition will end next month with the selection of a chairman for the 2012 election cycle.
--- end FOX----

--- start HPO----
RNC Chairman Michael Steele is expected by some to announce that he will not seek a second term as the head of the Republican National Committee, according to multiple reports.
Politico reported over the weekend that many of his supporters as well as other GOP operatives believe that a Steele run was looking increasingly doubtful, due in part to the fact that he "has built no known reelection team or structure, making the prospect of a campaign unlikely in the face of competition that grows fiercer by the day."
Meanwhile, multiple sources tell Fox News that they believe Steele will drop out of the race.
And while many predict that Steele will call it quits after his current term, his increasing seclusion and detachment from other Republican advisers has made his forthcoming decision difficult to ascertain.
At least one GOP insider who had direct contact with Steele told the Washington Post that the chairman would indeed be seeking another term atop the RNC.
Hotline On Call says the nature of the decision is a "closely guarded secret" and reports that "even his top advisors, both inside and outside the committee, say they don't know which direction he will take."
Steele's gaffe-prone tenure at the helm of the RNC has aided the creation of a significant bloc of GOPers who are intent on seeing his departure next month.
While some, such as black conservative group BOND Action, have directly announced their intentions to work toward insuring Steele's termination at the committee, other Republicans have simply lined up behind his growing list of challengers.
Maria Cino, a former Bush official who recently received key backing from former RNC Chairman Ed Gillespie and former Vice President Dick Cheney, became the latest official contender this weekend.
Wisconsin GOP Chairman Reince Preibus, recently resigned RNC political director Gentry Collins, former U.S. ambassador Ann Wagner and former Michigan GOP chairman Saul Anuzis also round out the list.
Politico also reports that former Senator Norm Coleman could enter the race if Steele decides not to run.
--- end HPO----

--- start NYT (w error) ----
The battle for control of the Republican National Committee will take a new turn on Monday when Michael Steele announces whether he plans to step down as party chairman or will disregard the onslaught of criticism about his oversight of the committee and seek a second term.
Mr. Steele is expected to disclose his intentions during a conference call with committee members on Monday evening.
Mr. Steele has lost the backing of many top supporters, but he has not yet said whether he will try to rebuild his frayed coalition and fight for the chance to lead the party into the 2012 election cycle.
Mr. Steele’s tenure has been one of the few blemishes this year for the Republican Party, which scored historic victories in the midterm elections.
At least six top Republicans have already taken steps to run for party chairman and several members have withdrawn their support for Mr. Steele, leading many party leaders to conclude that Mr. Steele will not seek reelection.
But Mr. Steele has kept close counsel about his future, Republican officials said Sunday, and his plans were unknown even to several of his own advisers.
A spokesman for the R.N.C. did not respond to inquiries about the conference call, which Mr. Steele announced personally in a weekend e-mail message to fellow Republicans.
“Dear Members, Please join me for a private conference call,” Mr. Steele wrote in a message to Republicans, which was provided to the New York Times by a committee member.
“Thank you and I look forward to talking to you Monday evening.”
A coordinated effort to replace Mr. Steele has been underway for weeks, with several leading Republicans arguing that the committee needed to urgently improve its fund-raising practices and tighten its organizational structure to prepare for the presidential election.
The political director of the committee resigned in protest last month and is among those vying for the job.
Mr. Steele, a former lieutenant governor of Maryland, was elected in January 2009 to lead Republicans at a bleak moment.
He has argued that he deserves credit for building the party in all corners of the country and winning control of the House of Representatives last month.
The contenders for the position include: Reince Preibus, chairman of the Wisconsin Republican Party; Ann Wagner of Missouri, an ambassador to Luxembourg in the Bush administration; Maria Cino, a veteran Republican operative who has the support of former Vice President Dick Cheney; Saul Anuzis, former Republican chairman in Michigan; and Gentry Collins, who resigned last month as political director.
A former party chairman, Mike Duncan, also is considering a run.
(TN) The 168-member committee will elect a chairman during its meeting in January.

--- end NYT (w error) ----