--- start FOX----
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has said he’ll steer clear of the American presidential election, but he stars in a new ad set to air in the key battleground state of Florida that aims to make Iran a major campaign issue.
Netanyahu, who has a famously frosty relationship with President Obama, mentions neither Obama nor Republican challenger Mitt Romney, with whom Netanyahu worked in the mid-1970s at Boston Consulting Group.
His words are taken from a recent news conference, in which he expressed frustration at the Obama administration’s failure to establish “red lines” for reining in Iran and its rogue nuclear weapons program.
"The fact is that every day that passes, Iran gets closer and closer to a nuclear bomb,” Netanyahu says.
“The world tells Israel, wait, there's still time.
And I say wait for what?
Wait until when?"
A voice-over at the end of the ad underscores the prime minister's message: "The world needs American strength, not apologies."
The ad, paid for by nonprofit conservative advocacy group Secure America Now, could have a powerful influence in heavily-Jewish markets, including Miami.
Florida is considered a toss-up in recent polling, and its 29 electoral votes could swing the election.
“Sizable majorities in both states believe that Iran will share nuclear weapons with terrorists,” said Jeri Thompson, advisory board member for Secure America Now.
“Support for Israel remains strong.
In short, (Netanyahu's) a powerful messenger with a powerful message who the American people believe.”
The ad, reportedly to air in Miami, West Palm Beach and Fort Myers, is costing Secure America $1 million, the organization confirmed to Fox News.
A Fox News poll released Wednesday shows Obama leading Romney, 49 percent to 44 percent, in Florida.
Meanwhile, Haaretz reported that the Republican Jewish Coalition has launched a separate $5 million TV advertising blitz aimed at Jewish voters in swing states.
That campaign started Wednesday and runs through Nov. 5 in cable and broadcast TV markets in Florida, Nevada, Ohio and Pennsylvania.
"This ad highlights the 'buyer's remorse' felt by many in the Jewish community, who voted for Obama four years ago but are now disillusioned with his economic policies and his policies toward Israel,” the coalition's executive director, Matt Brooks, said in a written statement Wednesday.
“These ads, and the stories of the people in them, give voice to the nagging doubts that many Jewish voters feel about President Obama.
To underscore that point, numerous polls have shown an erosion in Jewish support for the president."
Netanyahu also made an appearance on NBC's "Meet the Press" last Sunday, urging Obama to take a tougher line with Iran over its nuclear program.
"President Obama has said that he is determined to prevent Iran from getting nuclear weapons," he said on the Sunday morning show.
"If you're determined to prevent Iran from getting nuclear weapons, it means you'll act before they get nuclear weapons."
--- end FOX----

--- start NYT----
Israel and Middle East policy have a tendency of surfacing in presidential politics in rather combustible ways.
And a new advertisement that will run in areas of Florida with large Jewish populations attempts to stoke anxiety over American policies in the region, using a news clip of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel warning of the risks of a nuclear Iran.
“The fact is that every day that passes, Iran gets closer and closer to nuclear arms,” Mr. Netanyahu is shown saying.
For dramatic effect, a soundtrack fit for an episodic drama like “Homeland” plays as the prime minister continues.
“The world tells Israel, ‘Wait. There’s still time.’
And I say wait for what?
Wait until when?”
Then an unseen announcer concludes: “The world needs American strength, not apologies.”
That line is a not-so-veiled swipe at President Obama.
Mitt Romney and other Republicans have criticized his foreign policy as apologetic, toward volatile countries like Iran.
The group that produced the ad, Secure America Now, is run by two longtime Republican strategists, Nelson Warfield ? and John ?McLaughlin, and ?Pat Caddell, a former aide to Jimmy Carter who is now a Fox News contributor.
They have reserved $500,000 of airtime in Fort Myers, West Palm Beach and Miami.
A senior Israeli official said the government was not consulted on the ad and did not approve it.
--- end NYT----

--- start HPO (w error) ----
Even though Bibi Netanyahu recently decried the use of his name in election-year politicking, the Israeli prime minister is the subject of a new ad by Secure America Now, a neoconservative nonprofit organization dedicated to influencing the debate around American security and foreign policy.
Politico reports:
“A Republican involved with the project said it’s airing in Miami, West Palm Beach and Ft. Myers.
The flight is ultimately going to be $1 million, the official said - a media-tracking source said about $400,000 has been placed so far.
Those markets house some of the state’s largest Jewish communities.
The pollster for Secure America Now is John McLaughlin, who has worked with Netanyahu’s Likud Party.”
The ad features Netanyahu laying out Israel’s security concerns about Iran’s nuclear program, which Republicans have used to knock President Barack Obama’s sometimes frosty relationship with the Israeli prime minister. 
Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney has repeatedly targeted the Obama administration for not taking a firm enough stance against Iran, claiming on many occasions that the president has “thrown Israel under a bus.”
The GOP also has attacked the president for declining an opportunity to meet with Netanyahu at the United Nations General Assembly later this month in an effort to paint the current White House as dismissive of Israel and its concerns.
But Netanyahu pushed back against these criticisms in two separate interviews on Sunday, first telling CNN, “I know that people are trying to draw me into the American election.
(TN) I’m not going to do that.”
He also rejected reports that Obama refused his request for a meeting, pinning the circumstances on a scheduling conflict, as has the White House when pressed on the subject.
“President Obama has said that he’s determined to prevent Iran from getting nuclear weapons and I appreciate that and I respect that,” Netanyahu said on NBC’s “Meet the Press.”
When asked if Obama had thrown Israel under a bus, Netanyahu responded, “There is no bus.”
This isn’t the first ad Secure America Now has run against Obama, even though on its website the organization describes itself as representing all political ideologies.
In July, the group released an ad pushing the same attack line employed by Romney, accusing the president of embarking on a so-called “apology tour” at the expense of American security. 
The Obama administration is not mentioned by name in the latest spot, but it implicitly underscores the GOP’s narrative on the president’s relationship with the country’s closest ally.
--- end HPO (w error) ----