--- start FOX----
The White House asked former President Bill Clinton to talk to Rep. Joe Sestak about the possibility of obtaining a senior position in the Obama administration if he would drop out of the Democratic primary race against establishment-backed Sen. Arlen Specter, the Obama administration said in a report released Friday morning.
But the report, by White House Counsel Robert Bauer, concluded that "allegations of improper conduct rest on factual errors and lack a basis in the law."
Batting down allegations that the White House dangled the secretary of Navy position in front of Sestak, the report said that Sestak was offered executive branch positions on advisory boards that were uncompensated.
One of the jobs Clinton specifically discussed with Sestak was the president's intelligence advisory board.
But a White House official said the plan always was for Sestak to remain in the House, and he couldn't have served in the House and on the president's intelligence advisory board.
The report also described the Clinton conversations as informal and not tied to any precise job offer since, as a former president, Clinton could not guarantee Sestak anything.
Clinton initiated conversations with Sestak at the behest of White House Chief of Staff Rahm Emanuel, who was Clinton's political director when he was president.
As president, Clinton promoted Sestak to vice admiral and made him his director of defense policy.
Sestak was also a loyal and tireless supporter of Hillary Clinton's run for the presidency in 2008.
At hastily arranged news conference Friday afternoon, Sestak said Clinton called him last summer to express concerns over his jumping into the Senate primary, and how his military background could help him leave a mark on the House.
Sestak said he almost interrupted Clinton to tell him Clinton that "I am going to decide to get into this or not only depending upon what's good for Pennsylvania's working families and not an offer.
And he said 'I knew you'd say that,'" before the conversation moved on to other subjects.
The White House report disputed any suggestion that there was "impropriety" in Clinton's discussion with Sestak over possible alternatives to his Senate candidacy.
"There have been numerous, reported instances in the past when prior administrations -- both Democratic and Republican, and motivated by the same goals -- discussed alternative paths to service for qualified individuals also considering campaigns for public office," the report read.
"Such discussions are fully consistent with the relevant law and ethical requirements."
The report comes one day after President Obama insisted "nothing improper" happened with Sestak.
On that same day, Obama had lunch with Clinton.
"This is punishable by prison.
This is a felony," said Rep. Darrell Issa, R-Calif., who has been leading the charge for more details on the allegation.
"This is about the White House.
This is not about Congressman Sestak," Issa said, adding that he wants to know what Clinton was empowered to say.
"They've answered a question and it begs many more answers," he said.
"We want elections not to be appointments."
Sestak's opponent in the general election for the Senate seat, Republican Pat Toomey, questioned why it took so long for this explanation.
"If this explanation is as innocent as it looks, I sure don't know why it took three months to say so," Toomey said in a statement.
"As I've said many times, this job offer issue is not my focus, and it's not where Pennsylvanians want the focus of the campaign to be."
Critics say the Sestak job offer may have violated the part of the U.S. code that says: "Whoever, directly or indirectly, promises any employment, position, compensation...appointment...provided for or made possible in whole or in part by any Act of Congress...to any person as consideration, favor, or reward for any political activity...or in connection with any primary election ...shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than one year, or both."
--- end FOX----

--- start HPO----
Rep. Joe Sestak (D-Penn.) was offered a prominent but uncompensated, advisory position -- in the national security/foreign policy area -- if he declined to enter the Pennsylvania Senate primary race, a source with knowledge of the exchange said during a briefing on Friday morning.
The offer was made by White House Chief of Staff Rahm Emanuel through a prominent intermediary -- former President Bill Clinton -- during the months of June and July of 2009.
The White House initiated the conversation, which occurred over phone.
It would have allowed Sestak to remain in the House of Representatives while advising the president.
The source said it would not be surprising if more than one conversation took place, though there were no other intermediaries involved.
Sestak ultimately rejected the overture and went on to defeat incumbent Sen. Arlen Specter (D-Penn) in the Democratic primary election earlier this month.
"By virtue of his career in public service, including distinguished military service, Congressman Sestak was viewed to be highly qualified to hold a range of advisory positions in which he could, while holding his House seat, have additional responsibilities of considerable potential interest to him and value to the Executive Branch," a memo detailing the administration's findings reads.
The account offered by the source was the most detailed to date from primary sources as to the conversations they had with Sestak regarding his entrance into the Pennsylvania race.
News of the Clinton conversation was first reported by Greg Sargent at The Plum Line.
The source challenged one major aspect of the story line, insisting that the White House never offered Sestak the job of Secretary of the Navy.
The offer for that position was made more than a month before -- on March 26, 2009 -- to Ray Mabus.
Administration officials had spent time and capital recruiting Senator Arlen Specter to switch parties and run for re-election as a Democrat.
Part of that arrangement entailed clearing the field for his nomination.
When Sestak began making overtures that he would run, the White House looked for ways to follow through on its promise.
What resulted were the informal conversation(s).
Since then, much intrigue has surrounded what conversations actually took place.
Sestak brought the issue to the surface when he alluded to a job offer early in his primary run.
But he refused to provide details, such as who approached him and what position was dangled in front of him.
The White House, when pressed on the matter, had been vague.
Press Secretary Robert Gibbs declined repeated attempts for comment before relaying to reporters that he and White House lawyers had looked into the matter and found it legally permissible.
Behind the scenes, White House Counsel Bob Bauer's office began investigating the matter when stories first surfaced.
The investigation was internal at first with the White House reaching conclusions at least two-and-a-half months ago.
As part of the process, however, Bauer also interviewed representatives for Sestak and Clinton -- in this case Sestak's brother and Doug Brand and Bruce Lindsey respectively.
The congressman and the former president were not contacted for Bauer's investigation.
The source insisted that no laws were broken in the process of offering the position, that the matter hardly rose to the level of political scandal -- suggesting that Republicans on the Hill were hoping to reap political benefits from the saga.
It certainly wasn't historically unique.
As the Huffington Post reported on Thursday, various political historians and ethics lawyers have approached the Sestak news with yawns, noting that quid pro quos and backroom job offers are fairly common in administrations.
--- end HPO----

--- start NYT (w error) ----
President Obama’s chief of staff used former President Bill Clinton as an intermediary to see if Representative Joe Sestak would drop out of Pennsylvania’s Democratic Senate primary if given a prominent, but unpaid, advisory position, the White House said on Friday.
Rahm Emanuel, the chief of staff, asked Mr. Clinton last summer to explore “options of service” on a presidential or senior government advisory board with Mr. Sestak, the White House said in a statement.
Mr. Sestak said no and went on to win last week’s primary against Senator Arlen Specter.
The White House disputed Republican claims that the conversations might be illegal or improper.
“There was no such impropriety,” Robert F. Bauer, the White House counsel, said in a memo released to reporters.
“The Democratic Party leadership had a legitimate interest in averting a divisive primary fight and a similarly legitimate concern about the congressman vacating his seat in the House.”
Mr. Bauer went on to say that such horse-trading has been commonplace through history.
“There have been numerous, reported instances in the past when prior administrations – both Democratic and Republican, and motivated by the same goals – discussed alternative paths to service for qualified individuals also considering campaigns for public office,” he wrote.
“Such discussions are fully consistent with the relevant law and ethical requirements.”
Representative Darrell Issa of California, the senior Republican on the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, said the interactions described by the White House “represent an illegal quid pro quo,” even if the position was unpaid.
“It is abundantly clear that this kind of conduct is contrary to President Obama’s pledge to change ’business as usual’ and that his administration has engaged in the kind of political shenanigans he once campaigned to end.”
Federal law makes it a crime for anyone “who directly or indirectly, promises any employment, position, compensation, contract, appointment, or any other benefit” to someone else “as consideration, favor, or reward for any political activity or for the support of or opposition to any candidate or any political party in connection with any general or special election to any political office.”
It is also illegal for a government official to use “his official authority for the purpose of interfering with, or affecting, the nomination or the election of any candidate” for Senate.
While many have speculated that the White House offered to appoint Mr. Sestak as secretary of the Navy, Mr. Bauer said that was never the case.
The White House did not offer Mr. Sestak a full-time paid position because Mr. Emanuel wanted him to stay in the House rather than risk losing his seat, so he considered “uncompensated advisory board options.”
The White House did not disclose what those options were, but people briefed on the matter said one option was an appointment to the president’s Intelligence Advisory Board, a panel of prominent Americans outside government who provide independent oversight of the nation’s spy apparatus and advise the president.
But White House officials discovered that it would not work because Mr. Sestak could not serve on the board while still serving in Congress.
(TN) In a statement Friday, Mr. Sestak said Mr. Clinton had conveyed Mr. Emanuel’s suggestion that he join a “presidential board” while remaining in the House, but he declined.
“I told President Clinton that my only consideration in getting into the Senate race or not was whether it was the right thing to do for Pennsylvania working families and not any offer,” Mr. Sestak said.
“The former president said he knew I’d say that, and the conversation moved on to other subjects.”
Mr. Sestak first mentioned publicly in February that he had been offered a job but provided no details, and the White House for three months had refused to discuss it, generating intense criticism from Republicans who accused it of trying to bribe a congressman and deep consternation among Democrats who called on the administration to answer questions.
Mr. Emanuel was eager last summer to clear the way to this year’s Democratic Senate nomination for Mr. Specter, who had just left the Republican party, and to bolster Democrats’ majority in the Senate.
Mr. Sestak, a retired admiral and two-term House member, was already planning a run.
In tapping Mr. Clinton as the go-between, Mr. Emanuel picked the party’s most prominent figure other than Mr. Obama and someone Mr. Sestak had worked for on the National Security Council in the 1990s.
Mr. Sestak endorsed Hillary Rodham Clinton against Mr. Obama in the 2008 presidential primaries, and Mr. Clinton was one of the first to call to congratulate him on his Senate victory last week.
Mr. Clinton was at the White House on Thursday to have lunch with Mr. Obama and join him in greeting the American men’s World Cup soccer team heading to South Africa.
As chief of staff and previously as chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, Mr. Emanuel has not been shy about trying to steer party nominations to those he considers the stronger candidates.
The White House under Mr. Emanuel has also leaned on Gov. David Paterson of New York to drop out of this year’s gubernatorial race, which he eventually did under a cloud of scandal.
Mr. Emanuel’s deputy, Jim Messina, suggested a possible administration job to Andrew Romanoff to get him to not challenge Sen. Michael Bennet in a Colorado primary, The Denver Post has reported, citing unnamed sources.
Whether that constitutes ordinary political horse-trading or crosses a legal line has been debated in Washington for months.
Democrats and some Republicans have said it is hardly unusual for presidents to offer political appointments to clear the way for allies.
But Republicans have suggested such actions may constitute a crime.
Mr. Issa and all seven Republicans on the Senate Judiciary Committee have asked the Justice Department to appoint a special prosecutor.
The Justice Department wrote Mr. Issa last week that it did not need a special prosecutor to investigate if it chose to do so.
Government officials, who asked not to be identified discussing legal decisions, said that neither the Justice Department nor the Office of Special Counsel, an agency that looks at violations of the Hatch Act governing the political conduct of federal employees, is investigating.
While declining to discuss what happened, Mr. Obama on Thursday said, “I can assure the public that nothing improper took place.”
--- end NYT (w error) ----