--- start FOX----
Donald Trump announced Tuesday that he is bowing out as the moderator for a Republican presidential debate later this month, after most candidates in the field opted not to attend.
Trump said he wanted to make sure there's no "conflict of interest" in case he decides to run as a third-party candidate next year.
He cast his decision as a way to keep his options open.
He said later on Fox News that he's still considering an independent bid.
"I am looking at it, if the Republicans choose the wrong candidate, which is a possibility, and if the economy continues to be bad, which I think it will be," Trump said.
The real estate mogul and reality TV star said he wants to make sure Republicans pick the "right" candidate -- he said he still plans to make an endorsement despite his threatened third-party run.
Though the Dec. 27 debate technically is sponsored by Newsmax, Trump quickly became the face of it after he was named as moderator.
While former House Speaker Newt Gingrich and former Pennsylvania Sen. Rick Santorum agreed to attend early on, other Republican candidates subsequently bowed out.
Some expressed concern that Trump, who previously flirted with a possible Republican presidential bid before shelving the idea, would not definitively rule out running as a third-party candidate.
Trump on Tuesday specifically cited Republican National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus' concerns about his involvement.
He said he does not expect Newsmax to follow through with the debate now that he's out.
"We would have done very well.
We would have gotten great ratings," Trump said, voicing his trademark confidence.
Trump first announced his debate decision in a written statement Tuesday afternoon.
"It is very important to me that the right Republican candidate be chosen to defeat the failed and very destructive Obama administration, but if that Republican, in my opinion, is not the right candidate, I am not willing to give up my right to run as an independent candidate," he said.
"Therefore, so that there is no conflict of interest within the Republican Party, I have decided not to be the moderator of the Newsmax debate.
... I must leave all of my options open because, above all else, we must make America great again!"
Trump went on to praise Gingrich and Santorum for "having the courage, conviction, and confidence" to agree to the debate.
--- end FOX----

--- start HPO----
Donald Trump has announced Tuesday that he is pulling out of his own Dec. 27th debate.
"I have decided not to be the moderator of the Newsmax debate," Trump said in a statement.
"I believe this would not only have been the most watched debate, but also the most substantive and interesting debate."
Trump said that he was ending the debate because he did not want to "give up my right to run as an independent candidate," which he claimed the Republican Party was asking him to do if he wanted to moderate the debate.
(Trump made waves by very loudly claiming he was considering running as a Republican earlier in the year.)
The announcement came just eleven days after Trump initially said he was partnering with the conservative magazine to host a forum with the remaining Republican presidential candidates.
Since then, a majority of those candidates made clear that they would not be turning up, with only Newt Gingrich and Rick Santorum pledging to appear.
Trump also attracted the usual share of public ridicule for his decision to moderate, as well as his pledge to endorse whichever candidate he liked best at the debate.
As the days went on, Trump began making noises about possibly canceling the debate; however, as late as Monday night, he was still saying that the forum was taking place.
--- end HPO----

--- start NYT (w error) ----
Donald J. Trump has dropped plans to moderate a presidential debate, but don’t expect him to fade quietly from the political scene.
In fact, Republicans may have gotten more than they bargained for by shunning him.
Mr. Trump’s statement on Tuesday that he was bowing out of the Newsmax debate seemed certain to open the door to another round of “I just might …” threats from the real estate mogul.
“It is very important to me that the right Republican candidate be chosen to defeat the failed and very destructive Obama administration,” Mr. Trump said in his statement.
“But if that Republican, in my opinion, is not the right candidate, I am not willing to give up my right to run as an independent candidate.”
Mr. Trump drew considerable criticism from the Republican establishment for moderating a presidential debate while openly saying that he might still run if he was displeased with the candidates.
Rather than go ahead with the debate and declare that he will not run — Mr. Trump has flirted with running for president several times since the 1980s but has always decided not to follow through — he chose to drop the debate.
“I must leave all of my options open because, above all else, we must make America great again!” he said.
Mr. Trump was facing a potentially awkward task: moderating a debate that only two candidates said they would attend.
(TN) Newt Gingrich and Rick Santorum were the only two Republicans who agreed to participate.
Mitt Romney, Rick Perry, Michele Bachmann, Jon M. Huntsman Jr. and Ron Paul all declined, putting a big dent in Mr. Trump’s self-proclaimed status as Republican kingmaker.
Mr. Trump issued the following exclamation-point laden statement through his lawyer, Michael Cohen.
--- end NYT (w error) ----