--- start FOX----
Iowa Democratic Rep. Bruce Braley is under fire after a video surfaced Tuesday of him mocking Sen. Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa, as a “farmer from Iowa who never went to law school” — in the middle of Braley’s campaign for Senate in the state known for its agriculture industry.
Braley apologized for the remarks in a written statement after the video was released.
He said he “respects” Grassley and proclaimed his support for Iowa’s farmers.
“I have tremendous respect for Iowa farmers and appreciate how important they are to our state, and I’m grateful to have the support of hundreds of farmers across Iowa,” he said.
The video, which was posted online by the conservative super PAC America Rising, apparently shows Braley speaking to a group of lawyers at a fundraiser in Texas.
Braley says if elected to the Senate to replace retiring Democratic Sen. Tom Harkin, he would want to serve on the Senate Judiciary Committee.
He said Grassley, though, would likely become chairman of that committee if Republicans take the Senate.
“To put this in stark contrast, if you help me win this race you may have someone with your background, your experience, your voice, someone who’s been literally fighting tort reform for thirty years, in a visible or public way, on the Senate Judiciary Committee,” he said.
“Or, you might have a farmer from Iowa who never went to law school, never practiced law, serving as the next chair of the Senate Judiciary Committee.”
A spokesperson for Grassley fired back Tuesday, telling FoxNews.com that by Braley’s logic he, as a trial lawyer, would not be eligible to speak out on a number of policy issues like agriculture, energy or health care.
The spokesperson also touted Grassley’s “strong record” on the judiciary committee.
“Alongside that, Sen. Grassley’s one of only two working family farmers in the United States Senate, where he brings Iowa common sense to work for ag, anti-trust, transportation, environmental, energy, trade, health care, communications, national security, and tax policy that works for all of America,” the aide said.
--- end FOX----

--- start NYT----
WASHINGTON — It is a lesson politicians never seem to learn from others’ mistakes: The microphone is always on.
The latest candidate to learn the hard way was Representative Bruce Braley, an Iowa Democrat running for Senate this year.
Mr. Braley apologized to Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, and “anyone I may have offended” after video emerged of him warning that “a farmer from Iowa who never went to law school, never practiced law” could become chairman of the Judiciary Committee.
Mr. Braley is not running against Mr. Grassley, who plans to seek a seventh term in 2016.
But as the ranking Republican on the Judiciary Committee, Mr. Grassley could assume the chairmanship if his party takes control of the Senate this year.
Mr. Braley, speaking at a January fund-raiser in Corpus Christi, Tex., was explaining why he should go to the Senate instead of his Republican opponent.
America Rising, a conservative political action committee that has vowed to use videos and opposition research to attack Democratic candidates, posted the footage on YouTube on Tuesday.
Other Republicans quickly criticized Mr. Braley.
Though their numbers are declining, farmers are still a powerful force in the Iowa, which ranks second in the country in total farm sales.
Mr. Braley’s apology noted his family’s history with Iowa agriculture, including his own stint “doing farm jobs and working a grain elevator.”
In another appeal to Iowa farmers, Joni Ernst, a candidate in the Republican Senate primary on June 3, announced in an ad that she grew up “castrating hogs on an Iowa farm.”
Ms. Ernst said that qualified her to “cut pork” in Washington.
--- end NYT----

--- start HPO (w error) ----
Rep. Bruce Braley (D-Iowa), who is running to succeed retiring Sen. Tom Harkin (D-Iowa), faced tough local coverage Tuesday after critical comments he made about Sen. Chuck Grassley (R-Iowa) were made public.
At a January fundraiser in Texas, Braley urged the attorneys present to contribute to his campaign and contrasted his background with Grassley's.
"If you help me win this race, you may have someone with your background, your experience, your voice ... on the Senate Judiciary Committee," Braley said.
"Or you might have a farmer from Iowa who never went to law school, never practiced law, serving as the next chair of the Senate Judiciary Committee," he continued, referring to Grassley.
Braley's remarks were released Tuesday by America Rising, a conservative political action committee which conducts opposition research on Democrats.
One of the Republican primary field's leading candidates, businessman Mark Jacobs, immediately released a radio ad in an attempt to capitalize on the negative attention focused on Braley.
Both the Des Moines Register and the Quad-City Times featured the backlash over Braley’s comments on their front pages.
Braley apologized to Grassley in person on Tuesday after state Republican Party leaders and a number of Braley's potential Republican general election opponents condemned his remarks.
The representative also posted a statement Tuesday in which he apologized and emphasized that he has farmers in his family.
“I apologize to Sen. Grassley and anyone I may have offended,” Braley wrote.
“My parents both grew up on Iowa farms during the Great Depression.
It deeply influenced who they are and who I am, and gave me a profound appreciation for what farmers do for the world.”
Grassley, who owns a farm, often notes in Senate Judiciary Committee hearings that he is the only non-lawyer on the panel, which oversees the judicial nominations process.
Braley went to the University of Iowa's law school and worked as a lawyer in private practice before he was elected to the House of Representatives in 2006.
(TN) His race is one of a handful across the country that will determine control of the Senate.

--- end HPO (w error) ----