--- start FOX----
Hillary Clinton said Sunday the problems that Congress has with President Obama’s trade agenda should be an opportunity for the president to ask fellow Democrats about their concerns with the proposal but still declined to say whether she supports or opposes the legislation.
"Let's take the lemons and turn it into lemonade," Clinton told about 600 supporters at the Iowa State Fairgrounds, addressing the controversial Trans Pacific Partnership trade proposal that has splintered Obama from House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., and rank-and-file Democrats.
The legislation would give the president “fast-track” authority to approve pending trade deals with 11 Pacific Rim nations.
The measure also allows Congress to approve or reject such deals, but not amend them.
Courting Iowa voters, Clinton sought to address Democratic opponents of the trade legislation, including liberals and labor unions, who have said the Obama-backed plan will cost U.S. jobs.
The agreement has not been finalized or submitted to Congress.
"The president should listen to and work with his allies in Congress, starting with Nancy Pelosi, who had expressed their concerns about the impact that a weak agreement would have on our workers to make sure we get the best strongest deal possible," Clinton said.
"And if we don't get it, there should be no deal."
The White House and Republican leaders in Congress now face long odds in trying to revive the trade legislation after congressional Democrats helped defeat a job retraining program to jeopardize Obama's attempt to secure the fast-track authority.
Clinton appeared to be seeking a middle ground, saying while some support the deal and others vehemently oppose it, "I kind of fall in the group that says ‘what's in it?’ And ‘let's make it as good as it can be, and then let's make a decision.’ ”
She said Obama had an "amazing opportunity" to negotiate better terms and reiterated the criteria of worker protections, wages and national security provisions she would seek in a final deal.
Clinton said any deal should include the scuttled Trade Adjustment Assistance program to help retrain workers.
Trade has emerged as an early divider within the Democratic primary.
Vermont Independent Sen. Bernie Sanders, who was campaigning in Iowa on Sunday, has opposed the trade deal and questioned Clinton's refusal to say where she stood.
"It is a failed trade policy, and I would hope that the Secretary joins Elizabeth Warren, and vast majority of Democrats in the Congress in saying, ‘No, we've got to defeat this piece of legislation,’ ” Sanders said on CBS' "Face the Nation."
Former Maryland Gov. Martin O'Malley has also opposed the deal.
In a sign of its resonance within the party, his campaign noted in an email to supporters Saturday that Clinton's speech in New York didn't "weigh in on the secretive TPP deal that could depress American wages and cost American jobs."
The Obama administration has said it remains confident there are ways to get the trade provisions through Congress.
Republican leaders generally support Obama's trade proposal and have suggested they may try to revive the bill as early as this week.
"Republicans delivered," Wisconsin GOP Rep. Paul Ryan, chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, said on "Fox News Sunday."
"The question is: Are the Democrats going to do this to their president?"
While Clinton called the pact the "gold standard" of trade agreements while serving as secretary of state, she has refused to take a position on the deal since announcing her candidacy.
That brought criticism from Republican National Committee spokesman Michael Short on Sunday.
"By waffling on a trade deal she helped negotiate and once called a "gold standard," Hillary Clinton continues to show why voters overwhelmingly see her as dishonest and untrustworthy," Short said in a statement.
Clinton was spending most of the weekend in Iowa after formally launching her campaign in New York City, seeking to build an organizational edge in the state that tripped up her first presidential campaign against Obama.
Sanders was campaigning across the state and former Virginia Sen. Jim Webb, who is exploring a potential Democratic bid, also was holding events in Iowa on Sunday.
O'Malley held a day's events in the state last week.
Earlier in the day, top Clinton advisers, including senior spokeswoman Karen Finney, said that Clinton is waiting to see the final deal and that she has explained her position in recent weeks.
"We’ll see where this process goes," Finney told Fox News.
"This is someone who has voted for trade agreements when they have been good for the country and against trade agreements when she thought they were bad for the country."
Campaign Chairman John Podesta told NBC’s “Meet the Press” that Clinton “has a clear standard that (the deal) has got to be good for American workers or she thinks the United States should walk away from it.”
--- end FOX----

--- start HPO----
Democratic presidential hopeful Hillary Clinton encouraged President Barack Obama on Sunday to listen to House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D) on trade.
Pelosi took to the House floor Friday to oppose trade legislation Obama had personally lobbied for on Capitol Hill earlier that day.
“We have an opportunity to slow down,” Pelosi said.
“Whatever the deal is with other countries, we want a better deal for America’s workers.”
Following her speech, House Democrats rejected Obama's trade agenda in overwhelming numbers.
Obama spent the weekend lobbying members of his party to switch their votes next week.
At a rally in Iowa, Clinton said that if the president can't come to terms with Pelosi, there should be no deal.
"Here's what I think should happen now," Clinton said.
"The president should listen to and work with his allies in Congress, starting with Nancy Pelosi, who have expressed their concerns about the impact that a weak agreement would have on our workers, to make sure we get the best, strongest deal possible and if we don't get it, there should be no deal."
Clinton said she wants to "find out what's in it and make it as good as it can be," and pushed for more transparency "so the American people can actually see what will be in a finalized deal."
House Democrats rejected Obama's trade agenda Friday by blocking a measure that would have granted him the power to fast-track sweeping, secretive international agreements through Congress.
Clinton refrained from mentioning trade in her official campaign kickoff speech that took place at New York City's Roosevelt Island on Saturday.
Ahead of her remarks in Iowa on Sunday, her campaign said she would not be taking a position on trade until details of a deal were finalized.
However, Clinton appeared to suggest she would seek to negotiate the trade agreement as president.
"No president would be a tougher negotiator on behalf of American workers, either with our trading partners or Republicans on Capitol Hill, than I would be," she said.
--- end HPO----

--- start NYT (w error) ----

(TN) DES MOINES – Hillary Rodham Clinton on Sunday urged President Obama to listen to congressional Democrats – particular the House minority leader, Nancy Pelosi – and make changes to the Trans-Pacific Partnership trade deal that reflect their concerns about protecting American jobs and wages.
In her first detailed comments on the trade deal since the House of Representatives refused on Friday to allow Mr. Obama to negotiate it freely, Mrs. Clinton laid out a far more calibrated position on the deal than many Democrats and Republicans have taken.
She declined to take sides on the Friday vote itself but instead allied herself with Democratic critics of the deal — without actually opposing it.
She argued that the House vote gave Mr. Obama “this amazing opportunity” to seek concessions from Pacific trading partners to salvage the deal.
“The president should listen to and work with his allies in Congress, starting with Nancy Pelosi, who have expressed their concerns about the impact that a weak agreement would have on our workers to make sure we get the best, strongest deal possible,” Mrs. Clinton said at a rally here.
“And if we don’t get it, there should be no deal,” she added.
Mrs. Clinton indicated that if she were president, she would not abandon the 12-nation Pacific trade deal – as some Democrats want – but would use the opposition in Congress as negotiating leverage.
“I am willing to try now to see whether you can push to get rid of the objectionable parts, to drive a harder bargain on some of the other parts,” Mrs. Clinton said at the rally, her first here as a candidate for the 2016 presidential nomination.
Mrs. Clinton has been criticized by Republicans and some Democrats for saying little about the Trans-Pacific Partnership deal in recent weeks, especially since she had made favorable comments about it as secretary of state.
She is facing many Democratic primary voters who have deep misgivings about trade agreements, including the North American Free Trade Agreement, or Nafta, that President Bill Clinton signed, and she faces rivals for the 2016 nomination like Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont who flatly oppose the Trans-Pacific Partnership.
A few hours before Mrs. Clinton’s remarks, Mr. Sanders repeated his challenge to her to oppose the trade agreement.
“I would hope that the secretary joins Elizabeth Warren, Sherrod Brown and the vast majority of Democrats in the Congress in saying, ‘No, we have got to defeat this piece of legislation,’ ” Mr. Sanders said on CBS’s “Face the Nation,” referring to fellow senators.
Without naming names, Mrs. Clinton sought to distinguish herself from Mr. Sanders and Ms. Warren, as well as from fervent supporters of the deal like some of the Republicans running for president.
“No president would be a tougher negotiator on behalf of American workers with either our trading partners or Republicans on Capitol Hill than I would be,” Mrs. Clinton said.
“There are the voices that are for the deal no matter what’s in it, and there are voices that are against the deal no matter what’s in it.
I kind of fall in the group that says, ‘Let’s find out what’s in it, and let’s make it as good as it can be before we make the decision.’”
Mrs. Clinton invoked Ms. Pelosi’s name twice during her remarks and appeared to agree with Ms. Pelosi that “there are some specifics in there that could and should be changed.”
She said she supported trade adjustment authority to protect American jobs, but otherwise did not delve into details.
“Let’s take the lemons and turn it into lemonade,” she said.
Later on Sunday, at a house party with Democrats in Burlington, Iowa, Mrs. Clinton was more explicit in challenging Mr. Obama by setting expectations for him to work with congressional Democrats on the trade deal.
Mrs. Clinton called Ms. Pelosi “as strong a supporter” as Mr. Obama has, and said she hoped Mr. Obama would “seize” the chance to work with Democrats to improve the trade pact.
“My view is the White House should call Nancy and a few other of the Democrats to say, ‘What would it take to get an agreement that would be better and not worse for American workers?’” Mrs. Clinton said, aligning herself with a potential future ally (Ms. Pelosi) over a lame-duck president.
“I have held my peace because I thought it was important for the Congress to have a full debate without thrusting presidential politics and candidates into it,” Mrs. Clinton added.
“But now I think the president and his team could have a chance to drive a harder bargain, because they are now in the position of saying to all of these other countries ‘we need to maximize the number of winners.’”
--- end NYT (w error) ----