--- start FOX----
Congress on Wednesday overwhelmingly rejected President Obama’s veto of a bipartisan bill letting families of Sept. 11 victims sue the Saudi Arabian government, in the first successful veto override of Obama’s presidency.
Marking a significant defeat for the White House, the House ensured the bill will become law after voting 348-77 to override Wednesday afternoon.
This followed a 97-1 vote hours earlier in the Senate.
Despite last-ditch warnings from the Obama administration that the legislation could hurt national security and was “badly misguided,” lawmakers dismissed the concerns.
"This bill is about respecting the voices and rights of American victims," Sen. John Cornyn, R-Texas, said.
Sen. Charles Schumer, D-N.Y., speaking on the Senate floor moments before Wednesday's vote in that chamber, pushed back hard on Saudi government objections to the legislation.
“It’s very simple.
If the Saudis were culpable, they should be held accountable.
If they had nothing to do with 9/11, they have nothing to fear,” Schumer said.
Lawmakers in both chambers needed to muster a two-thirds majority to override, and did so easily.
The lone "no" vote in the Senate was Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev.
With elections just over a month away, many lawmakers were reluctant to oppose a measure backed by 9/11 families who say they are still seeking justice 15 years after the attacks that killed nearly 3,000 people.
A group of senators pledged to find ways to improve the measure during a post-election, lame-duck session of Congress.
Despite an expectation that Congress would override, the White House made a last-ditch attempt to fight it.
In a letter to Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and Reid, Obama warned the bill could cause chaos in U.S. foreign affairs, as other countries would use the measure to justify the creation of ways to target "U.S. policies and activities that they oppose."
"As a result, our nation and its armed forces, State Department, intelligence officials and others may find themselves subject to lawsuits in foreign courts."
Obama wrote in a letter delivered Tuesday.
But Cornyn, one of the bill's leading proponents, dismissed Obama's concerns as "unpersuasive."
Cornyn, the Senate's No. 2 Republican, and other supporters said the bill is narrowly tailored and applies only to acts of terrorism that occur on U.S. soil.
The Justice Against Sponsors of Terrorism Act, or JASTA, moved to the floor of the Senate in May and passed by voice vote.
The bill cleared the House earlier this month, also by voice vote.
Defense Secretary Ash Carter, in a letter Monday to a senior member of Congress, said he's sympathetic to the intent of the measure.
But the legislation could lead to the public disclosure of American secrets and even undercut counterterrorism efforts by sowing mistrust among U.S. partners and allies, according to Carter.
With the override, the bill will now become law.
During his nearly two full terms in office, Obama had never had a veto overridden by Congress.
The legislation gives victims' families the right to sue in U.S. court for any role that elements of the Saudi government may have played in the 2001 attacks.
Fifteen of the 19 Sept. 11 hijackers were Saudi nationals.
Courts would be permitted to waive a claim of foreign sovereign immunity when an act of terrorism occurs inside U.S. borders, according to the terms of the bill.
Saudi Arabia has objected vehemently to the legislation.
Obama vetoed the measure last week, telling lawmakers the bill would make the U.S. vulnerable to retaliatory litigation in foreign courts that could put U.S. troops in legal jeopardy.
But the bill's proponents have disputed Obama's rationale as "unconvincing and unsupportable," saying the measure is narrowly tailored and applies only to acts of terrorism that occur on U.S. soil.
Kristen Breitweiser, a 9/11 widow and co-chair of September 11th Advocates, criticized Carter's assessment, saying that the defense secretary had testified before Congress last week that he wasn't an expert on the bill.
--- end FOX----

--- start NYT----
As part of its final bit of business before the election, Congress is set to vote to override President Obama’s veto of a bill allowing families of those killed in the Sept. 11 attacks to sue Saudi Arabia for any role in the terrorist plot.
The override, the first Mr. Obama has faced in his presidency, is expected to begin in the Senate on Wednesday, followed by the House on Thursday.
Some lawmakers have been scrambling to try to obviate the veto rejection.
But their efforts, which come after both chambers overwhelmingly passed the bill, are almost certain to be futile, and members of both parties have vowed to override the bill.
Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the Democratic leader who plans to support the override effort, tried on Tuesday to play down any split between Democrats and Mr. Obama.
“It’s not against the president,” she said.
“It’s against an idea, an interpretation of the bill.”
Family members of the victims of the terrorist attacks have pushed for such a measure for years, and they have pressured members of Congress to move ahead with the legislation in the days leading up to the 15th anniversary of the attacks.
The bill, which Saudi Arabia has fiercely opposed and has hired a phalanx of lobbyists to combat, addresses a 1976 law that gives other countries broad immunity from American lawsuits, amending it to allow for nations to be sued in federal courts if they are found to have played any role in terrorist attacks that killed Americans on home soil.
The administration has argued that such a measure would put Americans at legal risk overseas from retaliating nations.
--- end NYT----

--- start HPO (w error) ----
WASHINGTON ― In a stinging blow to President Barack Obama, the Senate voted Wednesday to override his veto of a bill to let 9/11 victims sue Saudi Arabia for its alleged role in the terrorist attacks.
It’s the first time a chamber of Congress has had the votes to overrule Obama on a veto.
It’s also the result of some unusual alliances: Sen. Chuck Schumer (N.Y.), who is on track to become the next Democratic leader, led the effort against the president alongside Sen. John Cornyn (Texas), a conservative member of Republican leadership.
“This is pretty much close to a miraculous occurrence,” Cornyn said before the vote.
“All of us have come together and agreed this is the appropriate and right thing to do.”
It takes two-thirds of the Senate to override a veto.
Party leaders got well above that level.
The final tally was 97-1.
Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.) was the lone opposition.
Two senators didn’t vote at all: Sens. Tim Kaine (D-Va.), who is Hillary Clinton’s vice presidential running mate, and Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), who was Clinton’s runner-up in the presidential race.
A Kaine spokesman later told HuffPost that the senator was traveling during the vote, but had he been there, he would have voted to sustain the veto.
That puts him on the same page as Clinton, who has said she backs the bill.
The House voted later on Wednesday to override the veto, causing the bill to become law.
The bill, known as the Justice Against Sponsors of Terrorism Act, prevents Saudi Arabia and other countries with alleged ties to terrorist groups from invoking their legal immunity in U.S. courts.
It overrides the 1976 Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act, which grants immunity to countries that aren’t designated state sponsors of terrorism.
Fifteen of the 19 hijackers on 9/11 were Saudi citizens, but the Saudi government denies any role in the attacks and multiple U.S. government investigations have cleared it of blame.
“I deeply respect the president and the reasons he has given for vetoing the Justice Against Sponsors of Terrorism Act,” Sen. Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.) said ahead of the vote.
“But I urge my colleagues to move swiftly and soundly to reverse this veto so that these families can have their day in court.”
The White House has fought against the bill for months, to no avail.
Administration officials warn that it would put Americans overseas at legal risk and leave the United States vulnerable to bogus lawsuits ― and hefty bills ― in court systems around the world.
(TN) The European Union and former top executive branch officials have urged Obama to stop it, in the name of protecting sovereign immunity.
Saudi Arabia has threatened to retaliate by selling off hundreds of billions of dollars in American assets.
But those arguments didn’t sway lawmakers, who say the White House’s case is overblown.
The bill originally passed the House and Senate without a single “no” vote.
“The bill is near and dear to my heart as a New Yorker because it would allow the victims of 9/11 to pursue some small measure of justice,” Schumer said Wednesday.
“Courts in New York have dismissed their claims against foreign entities alleged to have helped in the 9/11 attacks.
They are following an incorrect reading of the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act.”
Obama vetoed the bill last week and issued a lengthy statement with it.
In sum, he said he sympathizes with 9/11 victims and has expanded efforts to help them, but that JASTA undermines “core U.S. interests.”
White House press secretary Josh Earnest last week downplayed the significance of Obama getting such a strong rebuke from Congress, including from Democratic leaders.
“The president is not particularly concerned about that,” Earnest said in his Friday briefing.
“This president has gone longer in his tenure in the White House than just about any other president in modern history before facing the prospect of having his veto overridden.”
--- end HPO (w error) ----