--- start FOX----
President Trump stood firm Friday on his demands for a border wall after the second White House meeting with congressional leaders this week broke up with no apparent deal, warning Democrats the partial government shutdown could last "years" and saying he could even declare a "national emergency" to bypass Congress if necessary.
“We can call a national emergency [to build a border wall] because of the security of our country,” Trump told reporters in the Rose Garden, during a lengthy and impromptu press conference.
“I may do it,” he said, before adding, “If we can do it through a negotiated process, we’re giving it a shot.”
The press conference underscored how far apart both sides are, even as Trump called the meeting "productive" and suggested the standoff could end soon -- or not. 
He indicated he was not shifting on his demand for more than $5 billion for funding for a wall on the southern border, saying it was necessary as the border is a "dangerous, horrible disaster."
"This is national security we’re talking about, we’re not talking about games," he told reporters. 
“We're not playing games, we have to do it."
Despite Trump saying conversations had "come a long way," Democrats were more dour in their assessment. 
Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer exited saying Trump told them "he’d keep the government closed for a very long period of time, months or even years.”
Trump later confirmed in the Rose Garden, "Absolutely I said that," while clarifying he hopes the partial shutdown doesn't last more than a few more days. 
He said it could be opened "very quickly" if they come to an agreement on the wall. 
He offered some flexibility only on what the wall would be made of, saying it could be concrete or steel.
"Steel is more expensive than the concrete, but I feel like we’re talking about steel because the other side feels better about it," he said.
Yet House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said the Democrats' view is that they cannot resolve the funding dispute until the government fully opens. 
She said there had been progress only in the sense of a "better understanding" of each other.
Looking for an elusive resolution, Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., said Trump agreed to designate staff to engage in negotiations with congressional leadership aides this weekend. 
Trump later said the group would "determine what we're going to do about the border." 
That group would include Vice President Pence and advisor Jared Kushner.
The meeting came on the 14th day of the shutdown, which was triggered by disagreements over the funding of Trump’s promised wall, after Democrats formally took control of the House of Representatives. 
Trump has said that $5 billion in funding for the wall is non-negotiable, while Democrats have said they will fund more general border security -- but not the wall.
Trump met with Democratic and Republican leaders of both chambers. 
Ahead of the meeting Trump sent a letter to members of Congress congratulating Pelosi on her election as speaker and calling on Congress to re-open the government.
“As we begin this new Congress, our first task should be to reopen the Government and to deliver on our highest duty as elected officials: the security of the Nation and its borders," he said. 
“It is the sovereign right of every nation to establish an immigration program in its national interest—lawfully admitting those who have followed the rules, while denying entry to those who break the rules or fail to meet the requirements established in law."
As part of his strategy, he made available to every member a presentation on border security that he said those present at a meeting Wednesday did not want to hear.
“Americans have endured decades of broken promises on illegal immigration. 
Now, is the time for both parties to rise above the partisan discord, to set aside political convenience, and to put the national interest first,” he wrote.
Democrats, meanwhile, passed legislation in the House that would fund the whole government, but not the wall.  
Pelosi accused Republicans of holding government workers hostage for the separate demand of a wall.
"The wall and the government shutdown really have nothing to do with each other," Pelosi said at an MSNBC Town Hall.
"There is no reason to have workers pay a price with their paycheck," she said
The legislation was immediately dismissed by Republican leadership. 
McConnell, R-Ky., called the bills “a time-wasting act of political posturing” and said that “a resolution will have to be palatable to House Democrats and Senate Republicans alike.”
“We need to make policy rather than simply making political theatre,” he told reporters.
White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders said on "Fox & Friends" earlier Friday that it would be up to Pelosi to get her party behind her, including the left flank pushing for impeachment.
“We think we're hopeful because the people that elected Nancy Pelosi didn't elect her to come up here and do nothing and didn't elect her to play political games,” she said. 
“They elected her to find real solutions and actually work with the president and work with all members of Congress to get things done.”
On Thursday night, Pence said on Fox News' “Tucker Carlson Tonight” that the terms of the negotiations were clear: "Bottom line, if there's no wall, there's no deal."
--- end FOX----

--- start NYT----
WASHINGTON — President Trump and Democratic congressional leaders dug in Wednesday for a lengthy partial shutdown in a newly divided government after a White House meeting — the first in 22 days — could not break an impasse over Mr. Trump’s demands for billions of dollars for a border wall.
During the contentious meeting in the Situation Room, Mr. Trump made his case for a wall on the southwestern border and rejected Democrats’ proposals for reopening the government while the two sides ironed out their differences.
“I would look foolish if I did that,” Mr. Trump responded after Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, posed the question to him directly, according to three officials familiar with the meeting who described it on the condition of anonymity.
He said that the wall was why he was elected, one of the officials said.
Democrats were equally adamant, according to another official who was present for the discussion.
Pressed by Vice President Mike Pence and Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the incoming minority leader, they refused to budge from their offer to devote $1.3 billion to border security.
The official also insisted on anonymity to describe the private conversation.
Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, said after the meeting that he had no intention of putting Democratic bills to reopen the government to a vote if Mr. Trump would not sign them.
“We’re hopeful that, somehow, in the coming days and weeks, we’ll be able to reach an agreement,” Mr. McConnell told reporters at the Capitol, offering an ominous timeline.
The events underscored the personal and political crosscurrents standing in the way of any compromise between a president unwilling to lose face with his core supporters on his signature campaign promise and newly empowered Democrats — poised to assume control of the House on Thursday — who refuse to give ground on an issue that has come to symbolize Mr. Trump’s immigration policies.
With the partial government funding lapse dragging into its 12th day and affecting 800,000 federal employees, the confrontation in the Situation Room only served to highlight the depth of the divide.
“Could be a long time, or it could be quickly,” Mr. Trump said of resolving the shutdown.
“It’s too important a subject to walk away from.”
Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, who is in line to be elected speaker on Thursday, said: “We are asking the president to open up government. Why would he not do it?”
“He could not give a good answer,” Mr. Schumer said.
Mr. Trump tried creative ways to persuade the Democrats that they should support his wall.
At one point, he said Ms. Pelosi should back it because she was “a good Catholic” and Vatican City is surrounded by a wall, according to one of the officials familiar with the discussion.
In her first legislative act as speaker, Ms. Pelosi plans on Thursday to bring up two bills to reopen the government.
One would fund the Department of Homeland Security through Feb. 8, providing a month to break the impasse over border security funding, and a second would provide money for the remaining shuttered agencies and departments through September.
The homeland security measure would devote $1.3 billion to border security measures, such as enhanced surveillance and fortified fencing, but not the wall.
Mr. Trump’s rejection of those measures left the prospects of a resolution at their dimmest since the shutdown began on Dec. 22.
It also highlighted the difficulty of the current situation, in which Democrats, Republicans and even some White House staff members have found themselves trying to anticipate what Mr. Trump will accept.
The president asked the congressional leaders to return to the White House on Friday to continue the talks, after Democrats had completed their leadership elections, according to an official who attended the meeting.
A second official who attended said Mr. Trump’s team believed it would be easier for Ms. Pelosi to negotiate once she was officially installed as speaker.
Both insisted on anonymity to describe the private gathering.
In a pair of evening tweets, Mr. Trump seemed to hold out hope of an agreement, writing: “I remain ready and willing to work with Democrats to pass a bill that secures our borders, supports the agents and officers on the ground, and keeps America Safe.
Let’s get it done!”
But the path to such a deal is murky at best.
Before he met congressional leaders on Wednesday, Mr. Trump publicly rejected a compromise that Mr. Pence floated privately with Democrats last month to stave off the government funding lapse, saying $2.5 billion in border security spending was insufficient.
In the hours before a midnight deadline to avert a shutdown before Christmas, the vice president had broached that number, which his team has quietly continued to push in the days after parts of the government ran out of money.
“No, not $2.5 billion, no — we’re asking for $5.6” billion, Mr. Trump said during a cabinet meeting, hours before the Situation Room briefing.
His rejection of the figure seemed to confirm the concerns of Democratic leaders who had questioned whether they could trust senior White House officials to broker any compromise that could then be rejected by a president who has often shifted his position at the last moment, especially when it comes to immigration.
The larger figure referred to the amount Mr. Trump has demanded for the wall, which the House endorsed in a vote last month, but which failed to garner even majority support in the Senate, where it would need 60 votes to prevail.
But inside the Situation Room later on Wednesday, the proposal resurfaced and Mr. Trump appeared open to it, according to one of the officials present, as Mr. Pence and Mr. McCarthy pressed Democrats to meet in the middle.
Ms. Pelosi and Mr. Schumer said $1.3 billion was their highest bid.
Wednesday’s gathering in the Situation Room, a secure chamber in the basement of the White House where military operations are tracked and other sensitive discussions unfold, was a conscious effort by Mr. Trump and his aides to infuse a sense of national-security crisis into the immigration discussion.
It was the president’s first face-to-face meeting with Democratic leaders since a combative session last month when he said he would insist that any government spending bill include money for a border wall — and would proudly own the consequences if that meant a shutdown.
But it quickly turned tense as Mr. Trump argued for his wall and called on Kirstjen Nielsen, the homeland security secretary, who appeared via teleconference from the border in San Diego to stress the need for it, according to two of the officials who were at the meeting.
Mr. Schumer interjected, calling on Ms. Pelosi, who disputed Ms. Nielsen’s statistics, two of the officials said.
Ms. Pelosi then laid out the legislative proposals she planned to bring up on Thursday, detailing how the spending measures had all received broad bipartisan support either in committees or on the floor in the Republican-controlled Congress.
The back and forth drew an angry response from the Department of Homeland Security.
“Democrats in the room either don’t care that there is a humanitarian crisis on the border or just prefer ignorance,” Katie Waldman, a spokeswoman for the department, said in a statement on Wednesday night.
“It was incredibly disheartening that they don’t want to know the facts when making policy.”
Yet hours before the meeting began, what was billed as a somber security briefing had already taken on the sharp tone of a political showdown, as Mr. Trump charged that Democrats were sacrificing border security for a partisan advantage in the 2020 elections.
“The United States needs a physical barrier,” the president said during the cabinet meeting, comparing the southern border to “a sieve” that allows criminals and drugs to enter the country and facilitates human trafficking.
“Walls work,” he added, claiming inaccurately that former President Barack Obama has one “around his compound” in Washington.
(Parts of Mr. Obama’s home in the northwest section of the city are bordered by a low brick retaining wall, and others have iron or chain-link fencing.)
Mr. Trump repeated his false claims about the border wall, including that Mexico was already paying for it, as he promised during his campaign, and that much of its construction had already been completed.
Outside the White House, the search for a way out is getting more urgent.
Some lawmakers have grown anxious about the shutdown’s impact on their constituents, including federal workers who are not receiving pay while their agencies are denied funding.
Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee, wrote an opinion article in The Washington Post suggesting three ways out: Grant the president the $1.6 billion for border security that he requested, without wall funding, plus an additional $1 billion for security at ports of entry; approve a bipartisan bill linking wall funding with protection for young immigrants brought illegally to the country as children; or resurrect the 2013 comprehensive immigration overhaul that included huge increases in border security measures, sweeping changes to immigration law and a pathway to citizenship for the nation’s 11 million undocumented immigrants.
Incoming lawmakers vented new concerns about the shutdown’s effect.
“This morning I requested that my pay be withheld until the shutdown is over,” Representative-elect Mikie Sherrill, Democrat of New Jersey, said Wednesday on Twitter, where she posted a letter to the chief administrative officer of the House making her request official.
She noted that thousands of federal workers in her state were not receiving paychecks.
“I came here to govern, not engage in partisan politics at the expense of hardworking Americans,” she said.
--- end NYT----

--- start HPO (w error) ----
WASHINGTON ― President Donald Trump’s partial government shutdown over his border wall closed in on the two-week mark and a brand-new Congress on Wednesday with no end in sight.
(TN) Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer and House Speaker-to-be Nancy Pelosi made their first visit to the White House since their Dec. 11 meeting with Trump, when he said he would be “proud” to take responsibility for a government shutdown in his effort to force Congress to spend billions of dollars on a wall along the southern border.
On Wednesday, the Democratic leaders emerged from the White House after 90 minutes, unified on not giving in to Trump.
“They are now feeling the heat,” Schumer said.
Pelosi, who is expected to return to the House speakership Thursday afternoon after eight years as minority leader, intends as her first action to pass spending bills that won Republican support last year to reopen the closed agencies.
“We’re asking the president to open the government,” she told reporters on the White House driveway.
“We are giving him a Republican path to do that.
Why would he not do that?”
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, though, said he will not take up legislation that Trump has not endorsed, which means the shutdown will continue.
About a quarter of the federal government ran out of operating money at midnight Dec. 21 after Trump reneged on his commitment to a sign a short-term spending bill that had already passed the Senate on a unanimous vote.
Trump changed his mind after Fox News and talk radio hosts ridiculed him for again backing down on his demand for wall money.
Trump is now insisting that Congress appropriate $5.7 billion for that project, while Democrats want a short-term spending bill for the Department of Homeland Security and full-year funding for the other affected agencies while funding for the wall is negotiated separately.
In the meantime, about 800,000 federal employees ― about half furloughed, half deemed “essential” and required to work anyway ― face real problems with their household finances.
Many will miss their first paycheck on Jan. 11 unless Trump signs a spending bill before then.
Employees would have to dip into their savings or borrow money to pay their bills, as there is no government program to help them.
Trump, however, did not mention them during extended remarks he offered shortly before his meeting with the eight top Democratic and Republican congressional leaders.
When asked how long the shutdown would last, the president replied, “As long as it takes,” calling his wall, a signature campaign promise, a matter of “national security.”
Trump’s comments came at what was billed as the first Cabinet meeting of 2019.
Instead, Trump spent the first hour and a half of it complaining about a variety of issues, such as former Defense Secretary James Mattis’ performance and the late Sen. John McCain’s vote against Trump’s repeal of Obamacare, as well as offering his musings on such things as the utility of wheels and his desire for Russia to invade Afghanistan again.
Trump’s remarks were riddled with falsehoods on everything from trade to the number of illegal immigrants in the country to the way NATO works.
The White House did not respond to HuffPost queries about whether Trump understood that what he was saying was false and, if he did, why he was doing so anyway.
Trump promised hundreds of times during his campaign that the wall would cost taxpayers nothing because he would get Mexico to pay for it.
But since taking office, Trump has never asked Mexico for payment.
Instead, he began threatening to shut down the government early last year unless Congress gave him billions of dollars to build it ― even though the type of structure he wants remains unclear.
During the campaign, he promised a “great, great” wall made of reinforced concrete that would rise 30 feet or more and extend so far underground that it would be impossible to tunnel underneath.
In recent months, he has at times said the wall could just be steel slats, which would be like the “bollard fencing” developed during President Barack Obama’s administration.
In a tweet Wednesday morning, Trump claimed, falsely, that Mexico was already paying for a border wall, thanks to a newly renegotiated trade deal, and that the wall was already largely done but he needed billions of dollars anyway.
Despite numerous requests over several weeks, the White House has not provided any economic analysis to back up Trump’s claims.
Outside economists and trade experts, however, said the revisions in the North American Free Trade Agreement, which Trump has rebranded the United States Mexico Canada Agreement, will not bring in to the U.S. Treasury anywhere near what is necessary to pay for a wall.
More important, what extra money does come in will be from tariffs, which are paid by people in the U.S., not Mexico.
--- end HPO (w error) ----