--- start FOX----
Even before Donald Trump landed in Mexico Wednesday, he found himself in a Twitter war with former Mexican President Vicente Fox – who went on a tear declaring the Republican nominee “not welcome” in the country.
Fox, an outspoken critic of Trump, started the fight when he said on CNN that he disagreed with current President Enrique Pena Nieto’s decision to invite the billionaire to the country to meet with him.
“He is not welcome to Mexico,” Fox told CNN.
“We don’t like him. We don’t want him. We reject his visit.”
"I think President Peña is taking an enormous political risk by hosting Trump,” he said.
“He will even be considered like a traitor because we don't accept to be offended like we just heard, and it should not happen that he comes here with a smile on his face.
I think this is a big mistake on the part of President Peña."
Trump, as is often his way, fired back on Twitter.
“Former President Vicente Fox, who is railing against my visit to Mexico today, also invited me when he apologized for using the ‘f bomb,’” he said, referring to when Fox said he wasn't going to pay for "that f-----g wall."
This triggered a fiery response from Fox, also on Twitter, as he called on Trump to apologize and "stop lying."
--- end FOX----

--- start NYT----
Donald J. Trump is heading to Mexico on Wednesday to meet with President Enrique Peña Nieto, but one of the Mexican leader’s predecessors had a different message for the Republican presidential nominee: You are not welcome here.
Vicente Fox, Mexico’s president from 2000 to 2006, said on Wednesday that the invitation from Mr. Peña Nieto was a mistake and that Mr. Trump should never be trusted in the country because of the way he has demonized its people.
“He is not welcome to Mexico,” Mr. Fox told CNN.
“We don’t want him. We reject his visit.”
Mr. Fox has been critical of Mr. Trump’s plan to build a wall on the border between the United States and Mexico and on Wednesday he shrugged off recent signs of Mr. Trump softening his plans to deport 11 million undocumented immigrants.
“You cannot trust a guy like this,” Mr. Fox said.
“How can we grant confidence and support to ideas that change everyday?
He cynically continues to disregard his own people and disregard Mexicans.”
Despite Mr. Trump’s promises that Mexico will pay for his border wall, Mr. Fox vowed in February that it would never happen.
He also called Mr. Trump a “false prophet” who was misleading his followers.
On Wednesday, Mr. Fox expressed disbelief that Mr. Peña Nieto would invite Mr. Trump for the private meeting.
He suggested that Mr. Trump was only coming as part of a “desperate” strategy to improve his sagging poll numbers and in explicit terms he urged Americans not to vote for him.
“I cannot envision him sitting in that chair, that was the chair of President Washington, President Jefferson, President Kennedy, President Reagan,” Mr. Fox said.
“He doesn’t know how to run a nation.
He doesn’t even know how to run a business.”
As he prepared to travel to Mexico, Mr. Trump responded to Mr. Fox’s attacks, noting on Twitter that the former Mexican president once suggested that he pay the country a visit.
Mr. Fox fired back with a Twitter post of his own, reminding Mr. Trump that he invited him to come to Mexico and personally apologize to all Mexicans.
“Stop lying!” Mr. Fox wrote.
“Mexico is not yours to play with, show some respect.”
--- end NYT----

--- start HPO (w error) ----
Former Mexican President Vicente Fox on Wednesday harshly criticized current President Enrique Peña Nieto for inviting Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump to meet with him south of the border, just hours before he is due to give a widely anticipated speech on immigration in Arizona.
“He is not welcome to Mexico,” Fox said in an interview on CNN.
“By 130 million people, we don’t like him, we don’t want him. We reject his message.”
Trump tweeted Tuesday that he had accepted an invitation to meet Peña Nieto in private.
An invitation had also been extended to his Democratic opponent, Hillary Clinton, but the former secretary of state’s campaign said she was looking forward to speaking with him at the “appropriate time.”
Trump has spent more than a year railing against Mexico and its leaders, promising the country would pay for the construction of a wall on the border it shares with the U.S., as well as fear-mongering about “rapists” and drug dealers that are coming across it.
(TN) The surprise meeting abroad with a foreign leader will be Trump’s first as a presidential nominee, and is not without risks to his candidacy.
Mitt Romney’s trip to Israel during the 2012 presidential campaign, for example, did not go over well.
Peña Nieto’s approval rating fell to a record low earlier this year amid several corruption scandals.
He, too, may seize on the meeting as an opportunity to bolster his image with Mexicans.
In his interview on CNN, Fox warned Peña Nieto would be viewed like “a traitor” if he does not stand up to the GOP nominee.
“Trump is using Mexico, using President Peña to boost his sinking poll numbers,” Fox said.
“I think the President Peña is taking an enormous political risk by hosting Trump.
If he’s gone soft on Trump, it will hurt him greatly.
He will even be considered like a traitor because we don’t accept to be offended like we just heard, and it should not happen.
He comes here with a smile on his face.
I think this is a big mistake on part of President Peña.”
“It’s a very opportunistic move and I hope U.S. public opinion, U.S. citizens can see this and finally, and finally see what is behind Trump, this false prophet that is just cheating everybody,” he added.
“It’s a desperate move and I don’t see how it can work at all.”
Earlier this year, Fox railed against Trump in an expletive-laden outburst, promising that Mexico would “never pay for that fucking wall.”
He later apologized, and even invited Trump “to come to Mexico and to learn about the real Mexico.”
Trump noted so helpfully in a tweet Wednesday morning.
“Former President Vicente Fox, who is railing against my visit to Mexico today, also invited me when he apologized for using the “f bomb.””
Fox tweeted his own recollection in response:
“, I invited you to come and apologize to all Mexicans.
Stop lying! Mexico is not yours to play with, show some respect.”
--- end HPO (w error) ----