--- start FOX----
President Trump thinks Alabama Republican Senate candidate Roy Moore “will do the right thing and step aside” if the sexual misconduct allegations against him are true, the White House said in a statement Thursday.
Speaking to reporters following the president’s Asia trip on Air Force One, White House Press Secretary Sarah Sanders also cautioned against a rush to judgment.
“Like most Americans, the president believes we cannot allow a mere allegation, in this case one from many years ago, to destroy a person’s life," Sanders said.
"However, the president also believes that if these allegations are true, Judge Moore will do the right thing and step aside."
Moore lashed out earlier at what he called "the Obama-Clinton machine's liberal media lapdogs" after The Washington Post reported on a woman's claims that the former judge and staunch social conservative initiated a sexual encounter with her when she was 14.
In a series of tweets Thursday evening, Moore claimed "The forces of evil will lie, cheat, steal –– even inflict physical harm –– if they believe it will silence and shut up Christian conservatives."
Amid calls for him to drop out of the race, Moore added, "Our nation is at a crossroads right now — both spiritually and politically.
Our children and grandchildren’s futures are on the line.
So rest assured — I will NEVER GIVE UP the fight!"
The Post story centered on allegations made by Leigh Corfman, now 53.
She told the newspaper that Moore, then an assistant district attorney, first approached her in 1979 outside a courtroom in Alabama where she was sitting with her mother.
On another occasion, she said Moore, then 32, took her to his home in the woods and kissed her.
During a subsequent visit, Corfman reportedly claimed he took off her shirt and pants; touched her over her bra and underwear; and guided her hand to his underwear.
She said the two did not have sexual intercourse, and that she ended up getting dressed and asking Moore to take her home, according to the Post.
“I wanted it over with – I wanted out,” she told the Post, apparently recalling her train of thought at the time.
Moore did take her home, she said.
The report caused immediate problems for Moore with his own party as he heads into the Dec. 12 election against Democrat Doug Jones.
Several GOP senators called on him to step aside if the allegations are true – and at least one senator, Arizona’s John McCain, said he should drop out regardless.
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., who backed Moore’s rival Luther Strange in the GOP primary, said in a statement: "If these allegations are true, he must step aside."
Sen. Cory Gardner, R-Colo., head of the Senate GOP campaign arm, called the allegations “deeply troubling” and said: “If these allegations are found to be true, Roy Moore must drop out of the Alabama special Senate election.”
Jones’ campaign told multiple news outlets: “Roy Moore needs to answer these serious charges.”
But Moore’s campaign issued a statement saying the report is “baseless” and false.
“National liberal organizations know their chosen candidate Doug Jones is in a death spiral, and this is their last ditch Hail Mary,” Moore campaign chairman Bill Armistead said.
“Judge Roy Moore is winning with a double-digit lead.
So it is no surprise, with just over four weeks remaining, in a race for the U.S. Senate with national implications, that the Democratic Party and the country’s most liberal newspaper would come up with a fabrication of this kind.
“This garbage is the very definition of fake news and intentional defamation,” he said.
The Post noted that the legal age of consent in the state is 16, and sexual contact by anyone 19 or older with anyone between 12 and 16 years old is considered second-degree sexual abuse.
The statute of limitations, though, has long since passed.
The Post interviewed three other women who were teenagers at the time who claimed Moore pursued them when he was in his 30s, though he did not force them into any type of sexual relationship.
“I have prayed over this,” Corfman told the Post as to why she came forward, “All I know is that I can’t sit back and let this continue, let him continue without the mask being removed.”
Alabama's Republican governor, Kay Ivey, responded: “These allegations are deeply disturbing.
I will hold judgment until we know the facts.
The people of Alabama deserve to know the truth and will make their own decisions.”
--- end FOX----

--- start HPO----
WASHINGTON ― The White House relayed President Donald Trump’s response late Thursday to bombshell allegations that Alabama GOP Senate nominee Roy Moore sexually molested a 14-year-old girl in 1979.
White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders, traveling with the president on his trip to Asia, told reporters that Trump “believes that we cannot allow a mere allegation ― in this case, one from many years ago ― to destroy a person’s life” but that if the allegations are true, “Judge Moore will do the right thing and step aside.”
A spokesperson for Vice President Mike Pence said the veep “found the allegations in the story disturbing and believes, if true, this would disqualify anyone from serving in office.”
Moore’s campaign denied the allegations, which The Washington Post first reported, telling the paper the accusations of four women are “the very definition of fake news.”
The Post reporters talked to more than 30 sources in the course of their investigation.
On Thursday, numerous Republican lawmakers on Capitol Hill called on Moore to drop out of the race ― if the allegations are true.
During his 2016 campaign, Trump dismissed allegations of sexual misconduct against himself from more than a dozen women and threatened to sue some of his accusers.
He claimed that a 2005 tape of him bragging about sexual assault, which was released last fall, was “locker room talk.”
In September, Moore, a controversial judge in Alabama, won the primary for the special election.
He beat GOP establishment candidate Sen. Luther Strange (R-Ala.), who was chosen to fill the seat left vacant when Jeff Sessions became Trump’s attorney general.
Trump notably backed Strange over Moore, though many members of his base, including former White House chief strategist Steve Bannon, supported Moore.
But after Moore won, Trump disavowed his endorsement of Strange, deleting tweets in support of him.
And the day after the primary, the president tweeted in support of Moore, calling him “a really great guy.”
--- end HPO----

--- start NYT (w error) ----
Republican officials in Alabama staunchly defended their party’s Senate nominee, Roy S. Moore, after a report that he had made sexual advances toward four teenage girls when he was in his 30s.
The Washington Post reported that, in early 1979, Mr. Moore, then a district attorney and later the chief justice of the state Supreme Court, had approached a 14-year-old, eventually kissing her, undressing her, touching her over her bra and underpants, and guiding her hand to touch him over his underwear.
The paper found three other women who said they had been pursued by Mr. Moore around the same time, when they were between 16 and 18 years old.
The Post interviewed more than 30 people in reporting its account.
Mr. Moore told The Post that the allegations were “completely false and are a desperate political attack by the National Democrat Party and the Washington Post on this campaign.”
He is set to face Doug Jones, a Democrat, in a special election next month.
The story was met with immediate backlash from Republicans in Alabama, several of whom dismissed the women’s stories out of hand.
Some called the article a partisan plot, even as the reporters behind it described in detail how they had uncovered the story and corroborated the allegations.
Here are some of the officials’ responses.
‘Total contrived media garbage’
That’s how John Skipper, 66, a former chairman of the Mobile County Republican Party, characterized the claims, speaking to The New York Times.
He said that he and other Alabama Republicans would continue to support their candidate and echoed Mr. Moore’s assertion that the Democratic Party had been behind the story.
“Most of them will not be shocked,” he said, “and will rather be expecting these shenanigans being pulled by the Democrats as standard operating procedure.”
Alabama’s state auditor, Jim Ziegler, told The Washington Examiner that the women’s claims were “much ado about nothing” and said that Mr. Moore had done nothing “immoral or illegal.”
(Alabama law, both in 1979 and now, finds that someone who is 19 or older and has sexual contact with someone between the ages of 12 and 16 is guilty of second-degree sex abuse.)
Mr. Ziegler sought to justify Mr. Moore’s actions by comparing him to the biblical Joseph, saying, “Mary was a teenager and Joseph was an adult carpenter.
They became parents of Jesus.”
“If they believe this man is predatory, they are guilty of allowing him to exist for 40 years,” he said.
“I think someone should prosecute and go after them.
You can’t be a victim 40 years later, in my opinion.”
Daniel Dale, a reporter for The Toronto Star, contacted multiple Republican officials in the state and kept a running report of their responses to the story.
Jerry Pow, the party chairman for Bibb County, told Mr. Dale that he’d back Mr. Moore even if the candidate had committed a sex crime.
“I would vote for Judge Moore because I wouldn’t want to vote for Doug,” he said.
“I’m not saying I support what he did.”
Others, including the party chairmen for Covington County, William Blocker, and Mobile County, John Skipper, dismissed the story as a Democratic trick.
Mr. Blocker said that he would not change his mind even if there was proof that Mr. Moore was guilty.
(TN) Riley Seibenhener, the party chairman in Geneva County, told Mr. Dale that if the allegations were true, he would not support the candidate.
But he also said that Mr. Moore was not guilty of “forcible rape.”
“I know that 14-year-olds dont’t make good decisions,” he said.
--- end NYT (w error) ----