--- start HPO----
Lois Lerner, the director of the exempt organizations unit at the Internal Revenue Service, plans to invoke the Fifth Amendment during her expected testimony before the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee on Wednesday, the Los Angeles Times reports.
Lerner announced her plans to plead the Fifth during her testimony in a letter from her lawyer, William Taylor III, to the committee.
"She has not committed any crime or made any misrepresentation but under the circumstances she has no choice but to take this course," the letter addressed to Chairman Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) reads, according to the Los Angeles Times.
Since she will be pleading the Fifth, Taylor has asked the committee that she be excused from testifying.
The letter from Taylor states that her testimony would "have no purpose other than to embarrass or burden her."
The Wednesday hearing would have been Lerner's first public appearance, and first under oath, since she apologized for the IRS' inappropriate targeting of conservative groups at a May 10 American Bar Association meeting.
That apology was planned ahead of time by the IRS, and came in response to a planted question.
Issa has issued a subpoena to compel Lerner to appear at the hearing.
Lerner is a key figure in the unfolding IRS scandal.
As director of the IRS exempt organizations unit, she is in charge of the division overseeing nonprofit organizations, which includes the Cincinnati office that was the source of the inappropriate targeting criteria.
The criteria directed the IRS to conduct a more intensive review of applications for tax-exempt status from groups with the name "tea party" or "patriot."
According to the report issued by the Department of the Treasury Inspector General for Tax Administration, Lerner had to correct the criteria developed by the Cincinnati office twice because she and other top IRS officials found that they were using politically fraught terms as they sought to make sure groups were properly applying for tax exemption.
Lerner's decision to plead the Fifth comes as the Department of Justice has initiated an investigation into whether laws were broken at the IRS, according to Taylor's letter to the committee.
It also follows a request to Lerner from the committee to provide information on why she gave "false or misleading information" to the committee on four previous occasions in 2012.
“The Committee has been contacted by Ms. Lerner’s lawyer who stated that his client intended to invoke her 5th amendment right and refuse to answer questions,” Oversight and Government Reform Committee spokesman Ali Ahmad said in a statement.
“Ms. Lerner remains under subpoena from Chairman Issa to appear at tomorrow’s hearing — the Committee has a Constitutional obligation to conduct oversight.
Chairman Issa remains hopeful that she will ultimately decide to testify tomorrow about her knowledge of outrageous IRS targeting of Americans for their political beliefs.”
--- end HPO----

--- start NYT----
WASHINGTON — The Internal Revenue Service official who first disclosed that the agency had targeted conservative groups for special scrutiny, and in doing so ignited a controversy that has ensnared the White House, denied on Wednesday that she had ever provided false information to Congress.
She then invoked her Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination and declined to testify at a House hearing on the agency’s actions.
As the official, Lois Lerner, appeared under subpoena before the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, she sternly told her questioners that accusations that she had misled Congress in previous testimony were false.
“I have not done anything wrong.
I have not broken any laws,” said Ms. Lerner, who leads the I.R.S.’s division on tax-exempt organizations.
“I have not violated any I.R.S. rules and regulations, and I have not provided false information to this or any other Congressional committee.”
Ms. Lerner has become a person of intense interest to Congressional investigators, who insist that she made, at best, incomplete statements when she said she first learned that her subordinates had singled out Tea Party groups after reading news media reports last year.
An inspector general’s report found, however, that she was briefed on their actions as early as June 2011.
After she refused on Wednesday to say anything more to the committee, despite attempts by Representative Darrell Issa of California, the committee’s Republican chairman, to persuade her otherwise, Mr. Issa tried to dismiss her and her lawyer.
But that upset other Republicans, who said that Ms. Lerner should not be let go so quickly.
“You don’t get to tell your side of the story and then not be subjected to cross-examination,” said Representative Trey Gowdy of South Carolina.
“She ought to stand here and answer our questions.”
Mr. Issa made a second attempt to persuade her to change her mind.
But when she declined, he dismissed her again.
Ms. Lerner then left the hearing room with her lawyer to a whir of camera shutters.
That exchange set the tone for a contentious hearing that veered into veiled accusations that the White House had a larger role in the controversy than previously disclosed, as well as outright attacks on President Obama’s character.
Mr. Issa said he reserved the right to recall Ms. Lerner later.
And he may elect to do so, given the objections of some Republicans on Wednesday after he dismissed her.
They argued that by making an opening statement, she had waived her Fifth Amendment right and could be compelled to testify, a contention Ms. Lerner’s lawyer disputed.
The committee also heard testimony from Douglas H. Shulman, the former I.R.S. commissioner; Neal S. Wolin, the deputy secretary of the Treasury Department; and J. Russell George, the Treasury inspector general who looked into the accusations of targeting.
And as the hearing continued, Republicans and Democrats pressed ahead with one point on which they agree these days: that an inept I.R.S. had committed serious misdeeds.
“The power to tax is the power to destroy,” Mr. Issa said.
Representative Elijah E. Cummings of Maryland, the senior Democrat on the committee, also scolded the agency.
“I believe there was gross incompetence and mismanagement,” he said.
“We are better than that. We are simply better than that.”
But Mr. Cummings also admonished his Republican colleagues.
“I think we need to be very, very careful not to let partisanship undermine the integrity not only of the committee but our investigation and our work product,” he said.
The hearing, the second this week on the I.R.S.’s efforts to target conservative groups, offered few new revelations.
Mr. George did shed some light on the extent of the accusations against the I.R.S., saying that at this point in this investigation he had no reason to believe any illegal conduct occurred.
“We do not deem it illegal. We do not believe that it was illegal, what they did,” he said.
At times, committee members could hardly conceal their contempt for the I.R.S. and the Obama White House.
Representative Jim Jordan, Republican of Ohio, tried to link the I.R.S. scandal with other controversies that are dogging the Obama administration.
“This administration, which told us and told the American people that the attack that killed four Americans in Benghazi was the work, was caused by a video, is now the same administration who expects us to believe that this scandal was just the result of two rogue agents in Cincinnati,” he said.
“The people don’t buy it.”
Representative James Lankford, Republican of Oklahoma, said the way that applicants for tax-exempt status were buried in I.R.S. paperwork reminded him of another sore point that Republicans have with the Obama administration.
“Man, that sounds like the Keystone Pipeline to me,” he said, referring to the proposed cross-country oil pipeline that the president has so far declined to approve.
One Democrat, Representative Stephen F. Lynch of Massachusetts, even raised the threat of appointing a special prosecutor if Congress continues to feel that the I.R.S. is not being straightforward.
“We know where that will lead. It will lead to a special prosecutor,” he said.
“There will be hell to pay if that’s the route we choose to go down.”
Later, Mr. Jordan pressed Mr. Shulman, the former I.R.S. commissioner, on whether he had visited the White House.
When Mr. Shulman said he had, Mr. Jordan produced White House visitor records that he said indicated Mr. Shulman had been there at least 118 times.
Was he sure, Mr. Jordan asked, that the I.R.S. targeting never came up?
“One hundred-eighteen visits and it didn’t come up in casual conversation?” Mr. Jordan said.
In follow-up questioning by Representative Gerald E. Connolly, a Virginia Democrat, Mr. Shulman offered what he said was one of the many plausible explanations why he would have visited the White House.
“The Easter Egg Roll with my kids,” he said.
--- end NYT----

--- start FOX (w error) ----
The IRS official who refused to testify at a House hearing Wednesday has become a key focus of the congressional investigations into the IRS practice of singling out conservative groups.
Now under the protection of her lawyers and the Fifth Amendment, Lois Lerner is facing a maelstrom of controversy.
Members of Congress are calling her evasive, and question why she didn't reveal the program sooner -- plus her history at the Federal Elections Commission is coming under scrutiny.
Lerner touched off the public controversy when, at an American Bar Association conference earlier this month, she apologized for the IRS' practice of targeting conservative organizations for additional scrutiny.
It was the first time the agency acknowledged the practice.
"They used names like Tea Party or patriots ... and they selected cases simply because the application had those names in the title," she admitted.
She said she hadn't revealed the information sooner, because she was never asked.
But just two days before the ABA conference, Lerner was specifically asked about the investigation.
Rep. Joseph Crowley, D-N.Y., asked her if she could "comment briefly on the status on the IRS investigation into these political not-for-profits."
She said: "Well there's a questionnaire that began this discussion and there's also a questionnaire out there that is seeking info from 501 c3,4,5 organizations."
Crowley later called her answer evasive.
"The bottom line is you cannot lie to Congress, and you cannot be evasive, you cannot try to mislead Congress," he said.
In the 1990's, Lerner also served as chief of enforcement at the Federal Elections Commission.
Under her direction, the FEC undertook the largest enforcement action in its history -- suing the Christian Coalition for violating campaign laws.
The Christian Coalition won, but in one deposition, FEC lawyers asked a defendant if televangelist Pat Robertson prayed for him.
James Bopp, the Christian Coalition's lawyer, said he was "shocked and appalled" by that.
"Both political activity and religious activity are specifically protected by the First Amendment," he said.
When Bopp learned years later that Lerner had been promoted to an IRS position, he became concerned.
(FN) "She was in effect being promoted for what she had done at the Federal Election Commission and now was going to be expected ... to replicate that at the IRS and now we know that's exactly what happened," he said.
Lerner is represented by lawyer William W. Taylor, who is noted for winning a dismissal of all charges against former IMF director Dominique Strauss-Kahn in a high-profile sexual assault case.
Lerner said at Wednesday's hearing that she had done nothing wrong.
"I have not done anything wrong," she said.
"I have not broken any laws. I have not violated any IRS rules or regulations, and I have not provided false information to this or any other congressional committee."
--- end FOX (w error) ----