--- start FOX----
Glenn Beck Rips Progressivism at CPAC
Fox News host Glenn Beck, armed with his trademark chalkboard, blamed "progressivism" for America's problems Saturday in his keynote speech that brought the annual Conservative Political Action Conference to a close.
The chalkboard, a prop that he uses frequently on his top-rated show, brought the audience to its feet.
Beck wrote "Progressivism" on it to underscore his belief in what America is suffering from.
When Beck asked what America is suffering from, someone shouted "President Obama," though Beck, an outspoken critic of the president, said it's "not that simple."
Beck rejected the notion that the Republican Party should expand its tent to include progressives.
"What is this? A circus?" he said, drawing laughter.
"America is not a clown show.
America is an idea that sets people free."
Opening up about his troubled past, Beck told the crowd, "People need to understand that life is not fair.
The bad guy sometimes wins."
The speech capped three days of panel discussions and high-profile speakers, including numerous politicians mentioned as contenders for the 2012 Republican presidential nomination.
But for a lot of the CPAC attendees, Beck was the reason they came, as he is seen as a leader in the new conservative movement.
The speech comes after a year in which Beck's growing popularity as a Fox News host coincided with the rise of the Tea Party Movement and populist rage directed at Washington.
Beck also launched the 9/12 Project, which sets forth nine values and 12 principles that he believes the country was founded upon.
The project inspired a major march in Washington in September.
"This is how is America should be," said Cynthia Burgiss, 22, a student at the University of Dayton in Ohio who attended the 9/12 march in D.C. this year.
"People of every race, political affiliation, religion came together for different reasons."
She was at CPAC to see Beck and called him a "relatable ... everyday guy."
"None of this would have happened without Glenn," she said.
--- end FOX----

--- start HPO----
Glenn Beck CPAC 2010 Speech VIDEO: Republicans Don't Need A Big Tent
Bombastic conservative talk show host Glenn Beck closed a three-day conservative conference on Saturday by demanding that Republicans get their own house in order before re-trying their hand at governance.
In a winding speech that touched as much on his personal turmoil as his policies and politics, Beck had the packed auditorium at CPAC captivated from the start.
Using hand gestures, multiple impersonations and his infamous chalkboard, he took the usual swipes at Democrats.
"Progressivism," he declared, "is eating the Constitution."
Moreover, it "was designed to eat the Constitution."
But the nearly hour-long address was spent not bemoaning his ideological foes, but rather demanding purity among his likely allies.
If last year's CPAC keynote speech - delivered by radio host Rush Limbaugh - was defined by urging President Barack Obama to fail, Beck's stood out for his demand that conservatism succeed.
"Dick Cheney a couple days ago... says it is going to be a good year for conservative ideas," he declared at one point, wiping the sweat from his brow.
"It is going to be a very good year.
But it is not enough just to not suck as much as the other side."
And who, exactly, sucked as much as the other side?
Beck didn't really name names - save for a swipe at one Republican (presumably Sen. John McCain) for admiring another Republican, Teddy Roosevelt -- the latter of whom Beck accused of launching the modern progressive movement.
But the message was clear: supporting anything that closely resembled the Democratic agenda would no longer fly with the modern GOP.
"I have not heard people in the Republican Party admit yet that they have a problem," he said.
"I haven't seen the Come-To-Jesus moment from Republicans yet."
"One party will tax and spend," he added at another point.
'One party won't tax and will spend.
It is both of them together."
The plea was made all the more effective by the intertwining of Beck's own story of struggle and redemption.
Pointing to his time as a recovering alcoholic, the Fox News host urged the GOP to embark on a 12-step program of recovery.
"Hello, my name is the Republican Party, and I got a problem.
I'm addicted to spending and big government," he declared, reading out the apology he wanted lawmakers to deliver.
Reflecting on his own lack of formal education, he railed against government handouts - extending the logic to argue against a right to health care.
The crowd was enthralled, even as Beck took them down winding tales of Calvin Coolidge, the Statute of Liberty and the supposed great middle class explosion of the 1920s.
But was the message what the conservative movement needed to hear?
Tradition dictates that political parties out of power do what they can to expand their coalition.
Elections, after all, are won when candidates broaden their appeal to the voters responsible for electing them.
For Beck and the surrounding CPAC crowd, however, ideological purity was the path to redemption and recovery.
All we've heard, the Fox News host complained, is "we need a big tent. We need a big tent. Can we get a bigger tent? How can we get a big tent?
What is this the circus? America is not a clown show. America is not a circus.
America is an idea. America is an idea that sets people free."
--- end HPO----

--- start NYT (w error) ----
Beck Wows the CPAC Crowd
Glenn Beck, the hero of the political right and the closing speaker of a three-day conservative conference, ripped the roof off a Washington hotel Saturday with a sweeping denunciation of progressivism.
Progressivism, he told the Conservative Political Action Conference, is a cancer that must be cut out of the system.
But he aimed his fire at Republicans as well as Democrats, and gave them little quarter, saying he did not know what the Republicans stood for.
“It’s not enough just to not suck as much as the other side,” he said.
Noting that he was a recovering alcoholic himself, he said that the party had to admit that it had a problem, which he had not heard it do.
“Hello, my name is the Republican Party and I have a problem!” he declared.
“I’m addicted to spending and big government,” he said, drawing cheers and applause from the thousands of people packed into the hotel ballroom.
But both parties are to blame, he said.
The Democrats tax and spend, while the Republicans just spend.
(TN) People are losing a fundamental belief that things will get better, he said.
“It is still morning in America,” he posited, “it just happens to be kind of a head-pounding, hung-over, vomiting-for-four-hours kind of morning in America.
And it’s shaping up to be kind of a nasty day, but it’s still morning in America.”
When the audience finished laughing, he asked: “What made us sit there at the john making us vomit for four hours?
What are we suffering from?”
Saying President Obama, he said, was “too simple an answer.”
The real problem, he said, is progressivism, scrawling the word with chalk on his signature blackboard. “This is the disease in America,” he said.
He held the audience spellbound with riffs on his personal life laced through his political philosophy, strong on personal responsibility.
“Who can guarantee you happiness?“ he asked. “Tiger Woods wasn’t happy.”
If you find financial success on the road to happiness, he said, conservatives believe “you shouldn’t be demonized or penalized by it.”
“I’m not going to pay for your mistakes and I don’t expect you to pay for my mistakes,” he said, to wild applause.
--- end NYT (w error) ----