--- start FOX----
Sen. Ted Cruz has laid down the gauntlet in the growing war of words with Donald Trump over the Republican presidential candidates’ wives.
The Texas lawmaker blamed his rival for the National Enquirer story published Friday that alleged Cruz has had extramarital affairs, and after hits from Trump’s campaign about the mental health of his wife, the firebrand senator appears to be backing away from his pledge to support Trump if the billionaire real estate mogul wins the GOP nomination.
“I don’t make a habit out of supporting people who attack my wife and attack my family,” Cruz said at a press conference after a Wisconsin rally, according to The Hill.
He added, “Donald Trump is not going to be the Republican nominee.”
Earlier in the campaign, GOP candidates signed a promise not to run as an independent if they were not nominated.
The move was meant to convince voters that Trump would remain faithful to the Republican Party even if he lost.
“It is garbage, complete and utter lies,” Cruz said about the National Enquirer article alleging that he has had multiple affairs.
“It is a tabloid smear, and it has come from Donald Trump and his henchmen.”
Trump spokeswoman Katrina Pierson responded to claims that she is one of the mystery women referred to in the article, stating on Twitter that the allegation is “stupidity on all levels.”
“Of course the National Enquirer story is 100 percent false!,” Pierson tweeted.
Of course the National Enquirer story is 100% FALSE!!!
I only speak to myself, however.
Earlier this year, the tabloid endorsed Trump for president with an issue that included an article giving ten reasons why the reality TV star is the “only choice for the White House.”
The intensely personal feud between Cruz and Trump began earlier this week when a super PAC that opposes Trump posted a meme-style ad featuring a naked Melania Trump that Trump’s then-girlfriend, a professional model, posed for more that 15 years ago for British GQ.
Make America Awesome PAC paid for the ads and posted them on Facebook and Instagram.
The photo features Mrs. Trump sprawled out naked on a fur rug inside a Boeing 727.
The social media posts read, “Meet Melania Trump. Your next First Lady. Or you could support Ted Cruz on Tuesday.”
An angry Trump lashed out at Cruz on Twitter, calling the senator a liar, as he has alleged before in the campaign, and threatening to “spill the beans” about Cruz's wife Heidi.
“Lyin' Ted Cruz just used a picture of Melania from a GQ shoot in his ad,” Trump said on the social media site.
“Be careful, Lyin' Ted, or I will spill the beans on your wife!”
Cruz quickly retorted by saying that the ads did not come not from his campaign, and called Trump a “coward” threatening to go after his wife.
“Pic of your wife not from us,” Cruz said.
“Donald, if you try to attack Heidi, you're more of a coward than I thought. #classless.”
The lurch into the sort of personal territory that's normally off limits in campaigns occurred as an anti-Trump super PAC began running an ad in primary states featuring women reciting comments made by the billionaire that are derogatory toward women.
That ad was produced by Our Principles, a group founded by a former Mitt Romney campaign adviser who is trying to help the GOP appeal to women.
Trump has a substantial lead in the delegate chase for the GOP nomination.
Cruz has a stiff challenge trying to catch him in remaining races and may only have a shot at the nomination if the contest spills into the summer convention.
--- end FOX----

--- start NYT----
From his home at Mar-a-Lago, Donald J. Trump stirred up new controversy this week in the Republican presidential primary — and new alarm among party leaders that the front-runner for the nomination will drive away women from candidates running farther down the ballot in the fall.
All week, Mr. Trump has slowly escalated a war of words on Twitter against Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, his main competition in the Republican race, based on an ad by a “super PAC” started by people who want to stop the New York developer from getting the nomination.
The spot featured an old nude photo shoot of Mr. Trump’s wife Melania Trump, a former model, posing on his jet.
Mr. Cruz has no affiliation with the super PAC, and he has denounced the ad.
But Mr. Trump has continued to express disbelief.
After threatening to “spill the beans” on Mr. Cruz’s wife, Heidi Cruz, who suffered a bout of depression years ago, he retweeted a post from someone who made a side-by-side photo comparison of Mrs. Cruz at an unflattering angle, and Mrs. Trump.
On Wednesday, Mr. Cruz repeatedly quoted from the movie “The American President” to defend his wife, as she held an event and faced questions about Mr. Trump’s threats.
But that was before Mr. Trump’s Twitter post with the pictures of the two women.
And Mr. Cruz had finally had enough.
Calling Mr. Trump a “sniveling coward,” Mr. Cruz told his rival to “leave Heidi the hell alone.”
It’s useful to remember the news media outrage in 2012 when Todd Akin, running as the Republican nominee for Senate in Missouri, defended what he called “legitimate rape,” a remark that was overwhelmingly offensive to women.
Under pressure from news outlets, the Republican Party tried to cauterize the wound that Mr. Akin had created by isolating him.
Spouses are generally seen as off limits.
And the responses to Mr. Trump’s comments among news media critics, over time, have been far more subdued.
--- end NYT----

--- start HPO (w error) ----
Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas) on Friday lashed out at Donald Trump, accusing the billionaire of enlisting "his friends at the National Enquirer and his political henchmen to do his bidding."
The tabloid published a story earlier this week claiming that Cruz had extramarital affairs with five women.
Cruz vehemently denied the rumors, which rippled through the Washington media establishment on Friday.
"I want to be crystal clear: these attacks are garbage," Cruz said Friday in a statement posted on Facebook.
Earlier in the day, the allegations spilled over into an almost surreal exchange on CNN between Cruz's former communications director Amanda Carpenter and Boston Herald columnist Adriana Cohen, in which Cohen accused Carpenter of having an affair with Cruz.
"You’ve been named as well, Amanda," Cohen said, referring to the National Enquirer piece.
Trump responded to Cruz's allegations in a statement on Friday afternoon:
“I have no idea whether or not the cover story about Ted Cruz in this week's issue of the National Enquirer is true or not, but I had absolutely nothing to do with it, did not know about it, and have not, as yet, read it.
I have nothing to do with the National Enquirer and unlike Lyin' Ted Cruz I do not surround myself with political hacks and henchman (sic) and then pretend total innocence.
Ted Cruz's problem with the National Enquirer is his and his alone, and while they were right about O.J. Simpson, John Edwards, and many others, I certainly hope they are not right about Lyin' Ted Cruz.”
(FP) While the Enquirer has an infamous reputation for tabloid journalism, it has also broken a number of major sex scandals over the years, including the extramarital affairs of former Sen. John Edwards (D-N.C.) and golfer Tiger Woods.
Reached for comment, a spokesman for American Media Inc., the Enquirer's parent company, also denied that the story had been influenced by Trump backers.
"No one influences the reporting that The National Enquirer does other than our own reporters and editors.
We stand by the integrity of our coverage and remain committed to our aggressive reporting on such an important topic," a spokesman said.
--- end HPO (w error) ----