--- start FOX----
Call it Cheney versus Cheney.
Mary Cheney, one of ex-Vice President Dick Cheney’s two daughters, has taken to Facebook to blast her older sibling, Elizabeth, a Wyoming Senate candidate, for the latter’s stance on same-sex marriage, The New York Times is reporting.
Mary Cheney, openly lesbian and married to Heather Poe since 2012, reportedly posted to her personal page on the social media site: “For the record, I love my sister, but she is dead wrong on the issue of marriage.
“Freedom means freedom for everyone.
That means that all families — regardless of how they look or how they are made — all families are entitled to the same rights, privileges and protections as every other.”
The Times reports Liz Cheney on Friday first articulated her position on the controversial subject, saying it should be something for voters to decide on a state-by-state basis, and not a matter for “judges” or “legislators.”
“I am not pro-gay marriage,” Liz Cheney reportedly said.
“I believe the issue of marriage must be decided by the states, and by the people in the states, not by judges and not even by legislators, but by the people themselves.”
Her sister replied by pulling no punches.
“It’s not something to be decided by a show of hands,” Mary Cheney reportedly wrote on her personal Facebook page, concluding her internecine post by saying, “Please like and share if you agree.”
Elizabeth Cheney declared in July she plans to challenge incumbent Senator Mike Enzi, also a Republican, in the state’s Republican primary.
The election is slated for 2014.
Former Vice President Cheney has publicly voiced support for same-sex marriage and, mirroring Elizabeth’s stance, has reportedly said the matter should be decided on a state-by-state basis.
--- end FOX----

--- start NYT----
Mary Cheney, the younger sister of Liz Cheney, a Wyoming Senate candidate, sharply criticized her sister’s stance on same-sex marriage and urged her own Facebook friends to share the message.
Posting on Facebook on Friday evening, Mary Cheney, who is gay and married her longtime partner last year, wrote: “For the record, I love my sister, but she is dead wrong on the issue of marriage.”
Their father, former Vice President Dick Cheney, supports same-sex marriage, and the younger Cheney echoed some of his language on the issue when she added, “Freedom means freedom for everyone.”
“That means that all families — regardless of how they look or how they are made — all families are entitled to the same rights, privileges and protections as every other,” Mary Cheney wrote.
Earlier Friday, Liz Cheney revealed her position on same-sex marriage, a topic she has kept relatively quiet about since declaring her candidacy in July against incumbent Senator Mike Enzi, Republican of Wyoming.
“I am not pro-gay marriage,” Liz Cheney said in a statement responding to an apparent push poll against her in Wyoming.
“I believe the issue of marriage must be decided by the states, and by the people in the states, not by judges and not even by legislators, but by the people themselves.”
That position — deferring to the will of the voters on a state-by-state basis — may represent something of a compromise between total support or opposition.
But it did little to placate her sister.
“It’s not something to be decided by a show of hands,” Mary Cheney wrote.
And to emphasize that she was not shying away from drawing attention to her view, Mary Cheney concluded her Facebook post: “Please like and share if you agree.”
In an e-mail, Mary Cheney declined to comment further on her sister’s position, saying she would let her Facebook post speak for itself.
The Cheney family dispute mirrors the broader disagreement among Republicans on same-sex marriage.
Less than a decade after George W. Bush and Dick Cheney won re-election in part thanks to conservative enthusiasm over enshrining traditional marriage into law, some in the party believe they are losing voters, particularly younger ones, over an issue on which public opinion has changed rapidly.
But other Republicans believe traditional marriage is a pillar of family values, and in some cases are reluctant to abandon their social conservative base on the issue.
Liz Cheney’s stance underlines the degree to which full-throated support for same-sex marriage, even in a libertarian-leaning state like Wyoming, still poses a political risk in a Republican primary.
Mr. Enzi opposes legalizing same-sex marriage.
--- end NYT----

--- start HPO (w error) ----
Mary Cheney, the younger sister of Wyoming U.S Senate candidate Liz Cheney (R) and daughter of former Vice President Dick Cheney, criticized her sister's opposition to same-sex marriage in a Friday Facebook post, the New York Times reports.
According to the Times, Mary Cheney, who is openly gay and married her partner, Heather Poe, in Washington, DC last year, took to Facebook to rebuke her sister's remarks.
“For the record, I love my sister, but she is dead wrong on the issue of marriage," she wrote.
"Freedom means freedom for everyone," she continued.
"That means that all families — regardless of how they look or how they are made — all families are entitled to the same rights, privileges and protections as every other."
On Friday, Liz Cheney issued a statement voicing her opposition to same-sex marriage.
"I am strongly pro-life and I am not pro-gay marriage," she said.
“I believe the issue of marriage must be decided by the states, and by the people in the states, not by judges and not even by legislators, but by the people themselves."
The elder Cheney daughter is challenging Sen. Mike Enzi (R-Wyo.) in next year's Republican primary.
Previously, she had spoken out against the military's former "don't ask, don't tell" policy.
According to The Hill, Cheney sought to clarify her position after an alleged poll in Wyoming said she "supports abortion and aggressively promotes gay marriage."
Her opposition also puts her at odds with her father, who offered support for gay marriage in 2009.
"I think that freedom means freedom for everyone," the former vice president said.
(TN) "As many of you know, one of my daughters is gay and it is something we have lived with for a long time in our family.
I think people ought to be free to enter into any kind of union they wish."
--- end HPO (w error) ----