--- start FOX----
Texas Rep. Blake Farenthold resigns from Congress
U.S. Representative Blake Farenthold resigned from Congress on Friday, following multiple allegations of sexual harassment, misconduct and inappropriate behavior.
Farenthold, R-Texas, had previously announced that he would not seek re-election in the 2018 midterm election, when reports of sexual misconduct first surfaced.
“While I planned on serving out the remainder of my term in Congress, I know in my heart it’s time for me to move along and look for new ways to serve,” Farenthold said in a statement Friday evening, noting he sent a letter to Texas Gov.
Greg Abbott to tell him about his resignation, effective at 5 p.m.
“It’s been an honor and privilege to serve the constituents of Texas’ 27th Congressional District.
I would like to thank my staff both in Washington and Texas for all of their hard work on behalf of our constituents.
I would also like to thank my family for their unwavering support and most importantly the people that elected me,” Farenthold said.
“Leaving my service in the House, I’m able to look back at the entirety of my career in public office and say that it was well worthwhile.”
Farenthold was sued by his former aide, Lauren Greene, in 2014, alleging a hostile work environment, gender discrimination and retaliation.
Among other things, Greene claimed Farenthold asked her for a threesome.
She sued him and was paid $84,000 from a public fund on behalf of Farenthold for a sexual harassment claim.
Farenthold pledged to repay the $84,000 in taxpayer money spent to settle the claim.
Farenthold’s former communications director, Michael Rekola, also described in detail the congressman’s alleged abusive behavior toward staff members, which ranged from making sexually graphic jokes to verbally abusing his aides.
Other staffers accused Farenthold of routinely commenting on the size of women’s breasts and making jokes about being on “redhead patrol” because he was attracted to women with red hair.
--- end FOX----

--- start HPO----
GOP Rep. Blake Farenthold Resigns After Sexual Harassment Allegations
Rep. Blake Farenthold (R-Texas) is resigning from Congress, he announced Friday in a statement and accompanying video.
Farenthold declared in December that he would not seek re-election in 2018 after reports emerged that he’d used taxpayer money to settle sexual harassment claims.
A few of his GOP colleagues urged him to resign over the accusations, which Farenthold has repeatedly denied.
“While I planned on serving out the remainder of my term in Congress, I know in my heart it’s time for me to move along and look for new ways to serve,” he said in the statement.
In his video, flanked by an American flag and a Texas state flag, he added: “You know, I look forward to staying in touch with everyone.
It’s been an honor and a privilege to serve.
Thank you so much.
Please, stay in touch.
I love y’all.
God bless you, God bless Texas, God bless America.”
Farenthold’s resignation took effect Friday at 5 p.m. Eastern time.
He promptly deleted his Twitter and Facebook profiles.
Farenthold used $84,000 in taxpayer funds to settle a sexual harassment lawsuit his former communications director, Lauren Greene, had filed in 2014, Politico reported in December.
Greene accused Farenthold of telling her he had “sexual fantasies” and “wet dreams” about her, and then claimed she was fired after complaining to Farenthold.
“I had no idea how to run a congressional office,” the four-term congressman said in December.
“As a result, I allowed a workplace culture to take root in my office that was too permissive and decidedly unprofessional.”
Farenthold said after the reports broke that he would repay the $84,000 to the Treasury Department, but has not made good on that promise.
A representative for his office told HuffPost in February that the congressman was waiting to see what changes lawmakers will add to the Congressional Accountability Act.
“He is waiting on the advice of counsel to see what final bill is enacted,” Bob Haueter, Farenthold’s chief of staff, told HuffPost at the time.
“Once the final bill is done and the law is changed and is complete and he can see that, he will make a determination of how he proceeds.”
In his resignation statement, Farenthold reflected on his time spent working to “make government more efficient and responsive, cut government spending, repeal Obamacare, protect life and reduce the debt.”
“I would like to thank my staff both in Washington and Texas for all of their hard work on behalf of our constituents. I would also like to thank my family for their unwavering support and most importantly the people that elected me,” he said.
--- end HPO----

--- start NYT (w error) ----
Texas Congressman Who Settled Harassment Case With Taxpayer Funds Resigns
Representative Blake Farenthold, Republican of Texas, in December at the Capitol.CreditJoshua Roberts/Reuters
WASHINGTON — Representative Blake Farenthold, the Texas Republican who used $84,000 in taxpayer funds to settle a sexual harassment case with his former communications director, abruptly resigned from Congress on Friday afternoon.
In December, Mr. Farenthold, who represented the 27th District of Texas, said that he would not run for re-election amid scrutiny over the payment and accusations from other aides that he set the tone for a hostile work environment in his office.
At the time, he was one of several lawmakers to announce his eventual departure from Congress after being accused of sexual harassment and discrimination.
“While I planned on serving out the remainder of my term in Congress, I know in my heart it’s time for me to move along and look for new ways to serve,” Mr. Farenthold said in a statement on Friday, thanking his staff, his family and the voters who elected him.
It was known for several years that Mr. Farenthold, already notorious for a heavily circulated photograph of him in duck pajamas, had been accused of sexual harassment by Lauren Greene, his former communications director.
She sued him in 2014, claiming that he had illegally fired her after she complained about mistreatment.
But in December, the extent of Mr. Farenthold’s settlement was revealed when Congress’s Office of Compliance released details of six settlements that it had paid out since 2013 as part of a review of discrimination and sexual harassment in congressional offices.
His case was the only settlement involving sexual harassment since 2013.
“While I 100 percent support more transparency with respect to claims against members of Congress, I can neither confirm nor deny that settlement involved my office,” Mr. Farenthold said at the time.
A decision in 2015 by the Office of Congressional Ethics, an independent, nonpartisan board, cleared him of wrongdoing, and he promised to repay the settlement.
A spokeswoman for Mr. Farenthold did not respond to questions about whether he had fulfilled that promise or whether he would do so after resigning.
(TN) But fellow Republicans suggested that he had not.
“Mr. Farenthold made a commitment that he would reimburse taxpayers for the settlement,” said AshLee Strong, a spokeswoman for Speaker Paul Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin.
“He reiterated his commitment to the speaker, and the speaker expects him to follow through.”
Representative Steve Stivers, Republican of Ohio and the chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee, also said in a statement that he hoped Mr. Farenthold would be “true to his word” and pay back the taxpayer money.
After the disclosure, more of his aides came forward to accuse Mr. Farenthold of fostering a hostile environment, describing a congressman with a harsh temper who made sexually explicit jokes and engaged in casual sexual banter.
The House Ethics Committee also opened a subcommittee investigation into Ms. Greene’s allegations.
In a video in December announcing his resignation, Mr. Farenthold continued to deny the allegations, but he acknowledged running an “unprofessional” workplace and said he was “profoundly sorry” for his actions.
At the time, Republican leadership praised his decision to step aside, over Democratic criticism that he should immediately resign.
After his resignation on Friday, Mr. Farenthold deleted his Twitter account and the Facebook campaign page where he first announced his decision to not seek re-election.
“Leaving my service in the House,” he said in his statement, “I’m able to look back at the entirety of my career in public office and say that it was well worthwhile.”
--- end NYT (w error) ----