--- start FOX----
Controversial Maine Gov. Paul LePage opened the door Tuesday to making an early exit from the governor’s office following pressure from state lawmakers to step down.
“I’m looking at all options,” LePage said on talk radio station WVOM.
“I think some things I’ve been asked to do are beyond my ability.
I’m not going to say that I’m not going to finish it. I’m not saying that I am going to finish it.”
Later in the day, LePage took to Twitter, though, to push back on media reports about a possible resignation.
During the radio interview, the governor apologized repeatedly for an expletive-ridden voicemail he recently left for Democratic state Rep. Drew Gattine -- the latest controversy to hang over his office.
Earlier, the Republican governor had refused to apologize for the message, even saying at press conference he wished it was 1825 so he could shoot Gattine in a duel.
In a recording of the message obtained by the Press Herald, the governor identified himself and went on to curse out Gattine.
“I would like to talk to you about your comments about my being a racist, you c---sucker.
I want to talk to you I want you to prove that I’m a racist.
I’ve spent my life helping black people and you little son-of-a-b----, socialist c---sucker.
You … I need you to, just friggin.
I want you to record this and make it public because I am after you.
Thank you,” he said in the message.
LePage initially said his outburst was justified because Gattine called him a racist – something Gattine has denied.
The alleged name-calling came after LePage said during a town hall that he’s collected a binder full of drug dealers arrested in the state showing that 90 percent of them “are black and Hispanic people from Waterbury, Conn.; the Bronx; and Brooklyn.”
The leaked voicemail prompted members of LePage’s own party to question his ability to lead the state.
During his news conference Friday, LePage offered more racially charged comments that have drawn fire, saying, "A bad guy is a bad guy.
I don't care what color it is.
When you go to war ... you try to identify the enemy.
The enemy right now, the overwhelming majority of people coming in, are people of color or people of Hispanic origin."
But this isn’t the first time LePage’s comments have gotten him in trouble.
The Republican governor has a long history of making controversial statements dating back to 2010 when he said if he were elected governor, he’d tell President Obama to “go to hell.”
A year later, LePage said that NAACP officials, who had called him out for not attending a Martin Luther King Jr.’s event, could “kiss my butt.”
In 2015, LePage was forced to apologize to the son of a cartoonist for The Bangor Daily News because he told him he’d “like to shoot” his father.
That same year, a charter school said LePage threatened to strip it of its funding if it did not rescind a job offer to Democratic state House Speaker Mark Eves.
In January, he said drug dealers with names like “D-Money, Smoothie (and) Shifty” are getting Maine’s white women pregnant.
He later said he had misspoke and meant to say all “Maine women” not only “Maine’s white women.”
LePage’s second and final term as governor officially ends in 2019.
--- end FOX----

--- start NYT----
AUGUSTA, Me. — Paul R. LePage, the embattled Republican governor of Maine, declared on Wednesday that he would not step down despite widespread criticism over a profane threat and generalizations about drugs and race that had prompted him to hint on Tuesday that he might abort his second term.
“I will not resign,” said Mr. LePage, who tried to put to rest swirling questions about his state of mind.
“I’m not an alcoholic, and I’m not a drug addict, and I don’t have mental issues,” he said.
“What I have is a backbone.”
Mr. LePage nevertheless said he was seeking “spiritual guidance,” had apologized for his threat, and vowed to make one change to his behavior: “I will no longer speak to the press ever again after today,” he said.
Behind the scenes, state lawmakers — Democrats and Senate Republicans — exasperated after six years of political controversies and what they saw as erratic behavior, were scrambling to figure out what, if anything, they could do to formally address this latest crisis.
The controversy, which has galvanized the state, started last Wednesday when Mr. LePage made sweeping statements linking minorities to the state’s drug crisis.
As criticism against him swelled, Mr. LePage came to believe that a Democratic lawmaker had called him a racist.
The governor then left him an expletive-laden voicemail message, which he followed up by threatening to shoot the lawmaker between the eyes.
In the ensuing days, Mr. LePage also reiterated his insistence that blacks and Hispanics were the vast majority of those arrested for dealing heroin in Maine.
Both Democrats and Republicans have denounced the remarks, as many legislators called for a special session to at least rebuke the governor over his latest tirade.
The state’s four legislative caucuses have said that they believe all four would have to agree for a special session to be scheduled.
But on Tuesday, Mr. LePage’s Republican allies in the House, including the minority leader, Kenneth Fredette, announced that they would oppose those efforts — essentially shielding him from any official political consequence.
That decision did not sit well with some other state Republicans, and on Wednesday morning, the spotlight shifted to them as the president of the Senate, whose members govern larger and more competitive districts, made a public break with his colleagues in the House.
“With all due respect, I completely disagree with Representative Fredette’s position,” the Republican leader, Michael Thibodeau, said in a statement.
“The Republican senate caucus has clearly stated that we need an acceptable plan for corrective action before the determination of whether the Legislature should convene is made.”
Mr. Thibodeau said many Senate Republicans were still deciding whether or not Mr. LePage’s apology and promise to seek “spiritual guidance” had allayed their concerns about the governor — a process that could deepen their divide with Republicans in the House and pull the controversy into a second week.
“There should be consequences for our actions,” Mr. Thibodeau said, “and I think that’s why we’re really struggling.”
There is no precedent for such a situation here — a fact that has sent lawmakers like Senator Roger Katz, a Republican who has been critical of Mr. LePage, back to reading their state Constitutions on Wednesday to figure out what, if anything, they could do now to convene a special session.
Mr. Katz, a lawyer, suggested it may require only a simple majority of the House and senate, which could reduce the House Republicans’ ability to block such a move, although he added there could be other hurdles to an agreement.
“It’s never been done before, so we’re in a little bit of uncharted waters,” said Mr. Katz, who said he wanted Mr. LePage to get “a competent evaluation and follow the recommendations of the evaluator.”
Democrats have continued to call for Mr. LePage’s ouster, and on Wednesday said they were scheduling meetings with Republican leadership to discuss how to proceed.
“Coming back in for a special session will be discussed and all options around the governor’s political future are on the table,” said the Democratic leader of the Senate, Justin Alfond.
Mr. LePage’s six years in office here, which began as part of the Tea Party sweep in 2010, have been marked by controversy.
Even as he fueled outrage among Democrats and angst among many moderate Republicans, his well of support, fed by voters drawn to his unfiltered political style, never seemed to run dry.
By all indications, Mr. LePage seemed determined to again ride out the political storm.
“I want to put this behind us,” Mr. LePage said, during a meeting with a select group of reporters in his office on Wednesday morning, adding, “I will never talk about it again.”
Mr. LePage spoke shortly after he met with — and apologized to — Representative Drew Gattine, the state Democratic lawmaker who had been the recipient of the angry voice mail.
And in meeting with reporters, Mr. LePage spoke emotionally about Maine’s heroin crisis.
But he but did not apologize for statements he made last week that linked trafficking in the drug to blacks and Hispanics.
“I didn’t use racially charged language,” Mr. LePage claimed, although he also said, “Let’s leave ethnicity out of it.”
--- end NYT----

--- start HPO (w error) ----
Maine Gov. Paul LePage (R) said Wednesday that he has no plans to resign, adding that from this day forward, he will no longer talk to the media.
“I will no longer speak to the press ever again after today,” he told reporters Wednesday.
“And I’m serious. Everything will be put into writing.
I’m tired of being caught in the gotcha moments.”
LePage has been mired in controversy since calling state Rep. Drew Gattine (D) a “son-of-a-bitch, socialist cocksucker” in a voicemail last week.
After widespread criticism ― including from members of his own party ― he apologized.
LePage hinted on Tuesday that he may resign before his term ends in 2018, telling a local radio station, “I’m looking at all options.
I think some things I’ve been asked to do are beyond my ability.
I’m not going to say that I’m not going to finish it.
(TN) I’m not saying that I am going to finish it.”
He walked back his remarks later that day, criticizing “rumors” that he was going to resign ― even though they came directly from LePage himself.
On Wednesday morning, LePage said unequivocally that he will be staying put.
“I will not resign,” he said after a reconciliation meeting with Gattine, according to the Boston Globe.
Democrats have been pounding LePage, saying that he needs to step down and questioning his mental abilities.
Gattine said after their meeting he believes the governor should resign even though he apologized for the voicemail.
“Every day, Paul LePage gives Maine people more evidence that he is unfit for office,” State House Majority Leader Jeff McCabe (D) and Assistant House Majority Leader Sara Gideon (D) said in a statement Tuesday night.
“The governor is not mentally able to serve and needs to resign.”
“I’m not an alcoholic and I’m not a drug addict and I don’t have mental issues,” LePage replied Wednesday.
“What I have is a backbone, and I want to move Maine forward.”
He said he will be seeking “spiritual guidance” from his family.
Members of LePage’s own party have been trying to deal with the headaches he’s caused as well, with one GOP state senator even talking about censuring him.
State House Minority Leader Ken Fredette (R) said Tuesday night that he would not support bringing the legislature back into a special session to consider sanctions against LePage ― a position that his counterpart in the Senate wouldn’t back.
“With all due respect, I completely disagree with Fredette’s position,” Senate President Mike Thibodeau (R) said Wednesday.
“The Republican Senate caucus has clearly stated that we need an acceptable plan for corrective action before the determination of whether the Legislature should convene is made.”
The latest controversy really dates back to January, when LePage claimed that drug dealers with names like “Smoothie, D-Money and Shifty” come into Maine and “impregnate a young, white girl before they leave.”
Last week, LePage tried to back up that statement ― which had been widely criticized at the time ― by saying he keeps a binder of drug dealers arrested in Maine and “90-plus percent of those pictures” in his book are of black and Hispanic individuals.
LePage was upset because he mistakenly believed Gattine heard those remarks and called him a racist, and so he left him the voicemail.
Gattine denied to the Portland Press Herald that he ever called the governor a racist.
LePage has long been clear about his distaste for the media.
He has said newspapers are his greatest fear and joked about blowing up the headquarters of the Portland Press Herald.
--- end HPO (w error) ----