--- start FOX----
The congressional committee probing the Benghazi attacks has formally requested that Hillary Clinton appear for an interview on her use of a personal email and server for official business while secretary of state, after learning the server had been wiped "clean."
Committee Chairman Rep. Trey Gowdy, R-S.C., made the request in a letter sent Tuesday to Clinton's lawyer.
Gowdy asked that Clinton agree to a "transcribed" interview -- and repeated a March 16 request for her to surrender her server so it can be examined by the State Department’s inspector general.
Gowdy said Friday that Clinton, the presumptive Democratic front-runner in the 2016 presidential race, has yet to adequately respond to the subpoena request for the server.
He said the committee learned she had “unilaterally decided” to wipe it clean and permanently delete all emails.
“This committee is left with no alternative but to request Secretary Clinton appear before this committee for a transcribed interview to better understand decisions the secretary made relevant to the creation, maintenance, retention, and ultimately deletion of public records,” Gowdy wrote to Clinton attorney David Kendall on Tuesday.
Earlier this month, Clinton acknowledged that she sent or received roughly 60,000 related emails, turning over roughly half to the State Department and deleting about the same number of “personal” ones.
The South Carolina Republican set a deadline of May 1 for the interview and restated the committee is interested only in the deleted emails relating to Clinton’s response as secretary of state to the 2012 terror attacks on a U.S. outpost in Benghazi, Libya, in which four Americans were killed.
“The committee believes a transcribed interview would best protect Secretary Clinton’s privacy, the security of the information queried, and the public’s interest in ensuring this committee has all information needed to accomplish the task set before it,” Gowdy also wrote in the letter.
Gowdy suggested Monday that he wants to have "separate conversations" with Clinton about Benghazi and the emails, in light of her wiping clean the server.
"I need to ask what she did (with the server) and when she did it and importantly why she did it,” he said on Fox News' "On the Record with Greta Van Susteren."
He also suggested on the show and in the letter that efforts to get Clinton to comply with the requests might require the full weight of the Republican-led House and that he will confer with House Speaker John Boehner about whether another committee will be involved.
Clinton has not yet announced a presidential bid.
--- end FOX----

--- start HPO----
WASHINGTON -- The House Select Committee on Benghazi sent a formal interview request to Hillary Clinton’s lawyer on Tuesday regarding emails she exchanged during her time as secretary of state.
In a letter to the Clinton’s lawyer, Rep. Trey Gowdy (R-S.C.), the committee chairman, said the committee is not interested in emails relating to personal or private matters, and instead will focus solely on those pertaining to “Libya and Benghazi during the relevant time periods.”
“Toward that end and because of the Secretary’s unique arrangement with herself as it relates to public records during and after her tenure as Secretary of State, this Committee is left with no alternative but to request Secretary Clinton appear before this Committee for a transcribed interview to better understand decisions the Secretary made relevant to the creation, maintenance, retention, and ultimately deletion of public records,” Gowdy stated in the letter.
Gowdy set a May 1 deadline for the interview.
An interview, Gowdy argued, would provide protection for the likely 2016 presidential candidate’s privacy and security for sensitive information.
The request comes after reports revealed Clinton used a private email address and a server located in her New York home during her time as secretary of state.
Last week, Gowdy said Clinton did not respond to any of the subpoenas requesting documents in the case, and her lawyer had informed the committee that the server used for emails during her tenure had been wiped clean.
Gowdy said once Clinton is interviewed and all documents related to the 2012 Benghazi attack are shared, the committee will schedule a time for Clinton to testify publicly in a hearing.
“We share the Secretary’s desire these two conversations take place as quickly and efficiently as possible, and are willing to expedite both working with your office, the Secretary’s schedule and our Democrat colleagues on the Committee,” Gowdy said.
“What the Committee cannot do is conclude its work without assurances the Committee has all relevant information necessary for us to discharge the duties required of us.”
Gowdy went on to call Clinton’s email situation “highly unusual, if not unprecedented,” and said it “exacerbates” lawmakers’ needs to “understand what the Secretary did.”
Earlier this month, Clinton said she had a private email account because she “thought it would be easier to carry just one device for my work and for my personal emails instead of two.”
She admitted that “looking back,” it would have been better to carry the second phone.
Clinton is not the only government official to use a private email for work.
Former Secretary of State Colin Powell said he used a private email during his time in office, as did Jeb Bush when he served as governor of Florida.
--- end HPO----

--- start NYT (w error) ----
WASHINGTON — The chairman of the House committee investigating the Benghazi attacks asked Hillary Rodham Clinton on Tuesday to appear for a private interview about her exclusive use of a personal email account when she was secretary of state.
Mrs. Clinton’s “email arrangement with herself is highly unusual, if not unprecedented,” the committee’s chairman, Representative Trey Gowdy, Republican of South Carolina, wrote in a letter to Mrs. Clinton’s lawyer Tuesday morning.
He added that Mrs. Clinton’s disclosure last week that all of the emails from the personal account had been deleted “only exacerbates our need to better understand what the secretary did, when she did it and why she did it.”
The emails were on a server at her home in Chappaqua, N.Y. Mr. Gowdy had asked Mrs. Clinton to turn over that server to a neutral third party, like the State Department’s inspector general, to determine which emails were personal and which were government records.
But in a letter to Mr. Gowdy on Friday, a lawyer for Mrs. Clinton said there was no need to turn over the server because an examination of it showed that it had no copies of emails she sent during her time as secretary of state.
In October, the State Department asked former secretaries of state dating back to Madeleine Albright to provide it with any government records — like emails — they might have in their possession.
The lawyer for Mrs. Clinton, David Kendall, said that in response to that request, Mrs. Clinton’s representatives had determined which of her roughly 60,000 emails were personal and private.
Then, he said, a setting on the email account was changed to retain only messages sent in the previous two months.
Since the report by The New York Times on March 2 that Mrs. Clinton used only a personal email account and did not even have a government account, she seems to have provided two answers about whether she still has copies of her emails.
(TN) At a news conference at the United Nations a little more than a week after The Times’s report, Mrs. Clinton first said she “chose not to keep” her private personal emails.
But she then said that the server, which contained personal communications of her husband, former President Bill Clinton, “will remain private.”
Mr. Gowdy said the committee believed that “a transcribed interview would best protect Secretary Clinton’s privacy, the security of the information queried and the public’s interest in ensuring this committee has all information needed to accomplish the task set before it.”
But Mrs. Clinton indicated on Tuesday that she wanted to give her testimony in a public setting.
In a written statement, a spokesman for her said she had told the committee months ago that she was prepared to testify at a public hearing.
“It is by their choice that hasn’t happened,” said the spokesman, Nick Merrill.
“To be clear, she remains ready to appear at a hearing open to the American public.”
The committee’s ranking member, Elijah E. Cummings, Democrat of Maryland, said the panel should hold a public hearing instead of a private interview.
“Rather than drag out this political charade into 2016 and selectively leak portions of a closed-door interview, the committee should schedule the public hearing, make her records public and refocus its efforts on the attacks in Benghazi,” he said.
Mr. Gowdy has sought to prevent his inquiry into the attacks in 2012 on an American diplomatic compound in Benghazi, Libya — and its burgeoning examination of Mrs. Clinton’s email practices — from being dismissed as a strictly partisan effort to embarrass a likely Democratic nominee for president.
But the time frame in which he is asking Mrs. Clinton to submit to questioning — at any time before May 1 — coincides with the period in which she is widely expected to make her candidacy official.
Some Republicans on Capitol Hill — including Mr. Gowdy — are growing frustrated with Reince Priebus, the chairman of the Republican National Committee, who they contend is politicizing the email issue.
On Monday, Mr. Priebus said in an appearance on Fox News that Mrs. Clinton’s decision to delete her emails “is criminal in nature.”
“I mean, you cannot just destroy documents when an agency is telling you to turn them over,” Mr. Priebus said on “Fox and Friends.”
“Even Nixon didn’t destroy the tapes,” Mr. Priebus said, referring to the Watergate scandal that ultimately led to President Richard M. Nixon’s resignation.
“There are thousands and thousands of emails that are missing.”
In an interview Tuesday, Mr. Gowdy said Mr. Priebus had overstepped his expertise.
“As far as I know, he’s not an expert in federal record-keeping law,” Mr. Gowdy said of Mr. Priebus.
“And I’m 100 percent positive he is not a member of the executive branch, which is charged with investigating and prosecuting under the law.”
“We don’t know enough facts, so why speculate?” Mr. Gowdy added.
“We should keep our conclusions and speculation to a minimum and follow the facts.”
--- end NYT (w error) ----