--- start HPO----
Several prominent conservatives offered swift, negative reactions to Michael Steele on Friday, after the RNC chairman was caught on camera saying that Afghanistan is a largely unwinnable war of President Obama’s choosing. 
The pushback crested with Bill Kristol — still an influential voice among Republican lawmakers — writing a letter to Steele on his Weekly Standard site calling for the RNC leader’s resignation.
“Needless to say, the war in Afghanistan was not “a war of Obama’s choosing.”
It has been prosecuted by the United States under Presidents Bush and Obama.
Republicans have consistently supported the effort.
Indeed, as the DNC Communications Director (of all people) has said, your statement “puts [you] at odds with about 100 percent of the Republican Party.
And not on a trivial matter.
At a time when Gen. Petraeus has just taken over command, when Republicans in Congress are pushing for a clean war funding resolution, when Republicans around the country are doing their best to rally their fellow citizens behind the mission, your comment is more than an embarrassment.
It’s an affront, both to the honor of the Republican party and to the commitment of the soldiers fighting to accomplish the mission they’ve been asked to take on by our elected leaders.
There are, of course, those who think we should pull out of Afghanistan, and they’re certainly entitled to make their case.
But one of them shouldn’t be the chairman of the Republican party.”
Kristol’s was the harshest of all the reactions to the Steele, whose spokesman, it should be noted, tried to clarify the comment by insisting that he merely meant that President Obama has not been forthcoming with a winning strategy. 
But the Weekly Standard editor was not alone.
Another major neoconservative figure, Dan Senor, told the Huffington Post that Steele’s comments are “utterly irresponsible.”
Senor, who served under the Bush administration as chief spokesman in Iraq and has been a major booster of efforts to escalate U.S. military presence in Afghanistan, noted that Steele’s RNC actually sponsored a conference call for his group to praise Obama’s Afghan surge last year. 
Indeed, even Steele himself declared back in December that Afghanistan is “’a war we have to win” — a far cry from the comments he made Thursday night, in which he said: “...you don’t do is engage in a land war in Afghanistan, alright, because everyone who’s tried over a thousand years of history has failed.” 
“It’s completely inconsistent with this latest statement,” summarized Senor. 
In a bit of irony, Steele’s most recent comments have actually resonated among anti-war Democrats who share the skepticism that Afghanistan is a winnable enterprise.
They also, in some respects, echo the opinions of some members of the conservative community (Joe Scarborough and George Will among them) who have been critical of the deployment of U.S. forces in that country. 
But Steele is not an anti-war Democrat. Nor is he a pundit.
He is the figurehead of the Republican Party whose tenure, once again, seems shaky.
Shortly after Kristol called for his resignation, a GOP operative began pitching the column to reporters, hoping that the meme of Steele’s troubles would spread far and wide.
--- end HPO----

--- start NYT----
WASHINGTON — Michael Steele, chairman of the Republican National Committee, drew fierce criticism and a call for his resignation on Friday after declaring at a party fund-raiser that the United States was on the wrong side of history with its conflict in Afghanistan, a military fight he called “a war of Obama’s choosing.”
“This is not something the United States had actively prosecuted or wanted to engage in,” Mr. Steele said in a speech Thursday night in Connecticut in which he offered a strong critique of President Obama’s military strategy.
“It was the president who was trying to be cute by half by flipping a script demonizing Iraq, while saying the battle really should be Afghanistan,” Mr. Steele said, according to a video of his remarks that was circulated by Democrats on Friday.
“Well, if he’s such a student of history, has he not understood that you know that’s the one thing you don’t do, is engage in a land war in Afghanistan?”
Mr. Steele, seeking to clarify his remarks, issued a statement on Friday afternoon, saying, “There is no question that America must win the war on terror.”
His remarks were the latest in a string of controversial statements that he has made as party chairman.
The war in Afghanistan, which has entered its ninth year, was started by former President George W. Bush in response to the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11, 2001.
Mr. Obama shifted the focus on the war on terrorism from Iraq to Afghanistan and last year announced his plan to send 30,000 more troops there.
Mr. Steele’s comments prompted William Kristol, editor of the Weekly Standard and a leading voice of conservative support for the war in Afghanistan, to call for Mr. Steele’s resignation as party leader.
“Your tenure has, of course, been marked by gaffes and embarrassments, but I for one have never paid much attention to them, and have never thought they would matter much to the success of the causes and principles we share,” Mr. Kristol wrote Friday.
He added, “Needless to say, the war in Afghanistan was not ‘a war of Obama’s choosing.’
It has been prosecuted by the United States under Presidents Bush and Obama.”
He added, “There are, of course, those who think we should pull out of Afghanistan, and they’re certainly entitled to make their case.
But one of them shouldn’t be the chairman of the Republican Party.”
A spokesman for the Democratic National Committee, Brad Woodhouse, said Mr. Steele was “betting against our troops and rooting for failure in Afghanistan.”
Republican officials dismissed that criticism.
When Mr. Steele made the remarks, he was speaking to Republican contributors at a fund-raiser in Connecticut.
Linda McMahon, the party’s candidate for the United States Senate in Connecticut, was in the audience, along with other leading state Republicans.
The video appears to have been taken by a hidden camera at an event that was closed to the press.
Republican officials did not dispute the authenticity of the video, but disputed its characterization.
In his statement on Friday afternoon, Mr. Steele did not respond to the call for his resignation.
But he sought to make the case that Afghanistan is now Mr. Obama’s war.
“For the sake of the security of the free world, our country must give our troops the support necessary to win this war,” Mr. Steele said.
“As we have learned throughout history, winning a war in Afghanistan is a difficult task.
We must also remember that after the tragedy of Sept. 11, 2001, it is also a necessary one.”
He added, with a reference to Gen. David H. Petraeus: “That is why I supported the decision to increase our troop force and, like the entire United States Senate, I support General Petraeus’s confirmation.
The stakes are too high for us to accept anything but success in Afghanistan.”
--- end NYT----

--- start FOX (w error) ----

(TN) Republican senators kept up pressure on party Chairman Michael Steele Sunday to better explain -- and publicly apologize for -- his on-camera claim that Afghanistan is a "war of Obama's choosing" and may not be winnable.
The backlash built quickly over the weekend as some prominent conservatives called for Steele's resignation.
Speaking on "Fox News Sunday," Sen. Jim DeMint, R-S.C., would not go that far but said Steele must apologize to the troops.
"Chairman Steele needs to apologize to our military, all the men and women who've been fighting in Afghanistan," he said.
"This is America's war.
It's not Obama's war."
The GOP chairman is known for off-the-cuff and occasionally troublesome comments, but the Afghanistan remarks were too much to bear for some war-supporting Republicans.
DeMint, who said Afghanistan is a war the United States must win, said Steele needs to "refocus" on the November election.
He called Steele's comments "unacceptable" and "inaccurate."
"We need a chairman who's focused," DeMint said.
Speaking on ABC's "This Week," Sen. John McCain, R-Ariz., said Steele's comments were "wildly inaccurate."
The Arizona Republican said Steele needs to assess whether he can still function in his job and must make "an appropriate decision" about his future.
Trying to quell the furor, Steele issued a statement saying: "There is no question that America must win the war on terror.
... And, for the sake of the security of the free world, our country must give our troops the support necessary to win this war."
He sent an e-mail to RNC members saying he hoped his statement would "clear up any confusion" caused by his earlier remarks.
That didn't seem to quiet the controversy in the slightest.
Weekly Standard Editor Bill Kristol, who led the charge of conservatives calling for Steele to step down over the remark, said on "Fox News Sunday" that Steele still needs to go -- though he said Steele tried to convince him otherwise.
"I think it would be better if he went," he said.
--- end FOX (w error) ----