--- start FOX----
California Democratic Rep. Nancy Pelosi on Wednesday was appointed to an eighth term as House minority leader, surviving a challenge from a Midwestern Democrat backed by caucus members frustrated over repeated election loses and an aging leadership team.
Pelosi was challenged by Ohio Rep. Tim Ryan in a secret-ballot vote among House Democrats.
She won by a 134-to-63 vote.
Pelosi said afterward that she was “exhilarated” by the strong support and reminded reporters that she had accurately predicted winning two-thirds of the vote.
She has winning brought “a special spring in my step” because it gives her the opportunity to “differentiate between us and the administration coming in January."
Ryan, after a disappointing 2016 election cycle for Democrats, argued that newer lawmakers in the party need a bigger, fresher voice to represent them, instead of the same slate of leaders and committee chairmen.
He represents northeast Ohio, a region full of the type of disaffected union workers and former Democrats who helped Republican Donald Trump win that battleground state and the White House.
“Clearly, this didn’t turn out the way we wanted,” Ryan said after the vote.
“We knew it was going to be an uphill battle.
… We needed to get out the economic message.
I’m disappointed, but I think the party’s better off because of this.”
Ohio Rep. Marcia Fudge, among the handful of House Democrats who backed Ryan's bid, said the effort to unseat Pelosi was not a failure.
“We didn’t lose today,” she said, interrupting reporters at the post-vote press conference.
“We now have a leadership team that listens to us.
… Today, we made our caucus more representative of our members.”
Another criticism among rank-and-file House Democrats was that the top posts are largely filled by East and West coast members, not those from the heartland.
Pelosi has led House Democrats since 2002.
Democrats lost the House majority in the 2010 Tea Party-inspired wave election.
And Republican-led redistricting has made chances of a Democratic comeback increasingly difficult.
The 76-year-old Pelosi, in the months prior to the Nov. 8 elections, repeatedly vowed that her party would retake control of the lower chamber, despite needing to gain roughly 35 seats.
“We know how to win elections,” she said Wednesday.
“We’ve done it in the past and we’ll do it again.
This is so much bigger that politics.”
Pelosi also described her upcoming role of contrasting Democrats to Republican President-elect Donald Trump’s incoming administration as a “historic challenge” that goes “beyond politics.”
Leadership elections were originally scheduled to be held before Thanksgiving but were delayed to give Democrats more time to discuss and process the election results and consider a path forward.
Many are discouraged after losing the White House and making smaller than expected gains in both chambers of Congress.
"I believe we must do more than simply paper over the cracks," said Rep. Ruben Gallego of Arizona, one of a handful of House Democrats to endorse Ryan.
"We can't just say the right things -- we must take concrete steps to move our party in the right direction."
In the days before Wednesday’s vote, Pelosi, a prolific fundraiser, promised some changes to assuage concerns in her caucus, including adding a member of the freshmen class to her leadership team.
She won despite her proposals doing little to ensure new blood at the very top or changing the seniority system that has key committees led by lawmakers in their 80s at a moment when the party needs to be defending ObamaCare and other initiatives by President Obama.
Republicans are on track to hold at least 240 seats in the House next year.
Democrats, who had high hopes of significant gains in the election, picked up just six seats on Election Day earlier this month and remain in the minority with 194 seats.
Rep. Loretta Sanchez won the competition for vice Democratic Caucus chairman, defeating fellow California congresswoman Barbara Lee.
Lee is a former Congressional Black Caucus chairman.
Sanchez formerly led the Congressional Hispanic Caucus.
Democrats until Wednesday had never had a female minority in their leadership ranks.
“I’m really honored and emotional to be standing here among a group of such great leaders,” Sanchez said in second, late-afternoon press conference led by Pelosi.
Other top leadership posts were uncontested.
Reps. Steny Hoyer, Maryland, kept the No. 2 job of House minority whip, and Jim Clyburn, South Carolina, remained in No. 3 position of assistant leader.
--- end FOX----

--- start HPO----
WASHINGTON ― House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) was re-elected to her leadership post Wednesday morning.
But more than 60 Democrats voted against her ― a stunning level of dissent at a time when the party is trying to pick up the pieces after a disastrous presidential election.
Pelosi defeated her lone challenger, Rep. Tim Ryan (Ohio), by a vote of 134 to 63.
It’s a decisive win, and it (barely) clears the two-thirds majority support that Pelosi predicted she had.
But it reveals that dozens in her caucus voted against her in secret ballots. That’s a lot.
“There’s a whole lot of anger,” said one Democrat who opposed her, who requested anonymity in order to speak freely.
“I’m astounded that this caucus refuses to acknowledge reality and change.”
Pelosi has led House Democrats since 2003, and that’s what Ryan had argued is the problem.
The same people have been running the caucus for years ― Pelosi, House Minority Whip Steny Hoyer (Md.) and Assistant Democratic Leader James Clyburn (S.C.) ― and they’re all in their 70s now.
Some say they’re not the right messengers to energize the base and convey an economic message that appeals to people beyond the two coasts.
House Democrats have also lost nearly 60 seats over the past six years.
They picked up just six seats in this election cycle ― far fewer than expected.
Pelosi’s supporters said her experience is what the party needs now more than ever, going up against President-elect Donald Trump and a GOP-controlled Congress: She’s battle-tested, she’s a prolific fundraiser and she knows better than anyone how to count votes and keep her party together.
They say it’s not her fault when Democrats lose at the polls, either.
“You can’t really blame Nancy Pelosi for gerrymandering and for the national election,” Rep. Hank Johnson (D-Ga.) told reporters.
She’s also the only woman in top House and Senate leadership.
If Ryan had replaced her, it would have become all white men.
The California Democrat spoke briefly to reporters after the vote, saying she feels “exhilarated” at being re-elected.
“Today has a special excitement for me because I think we’re at a time where it is well beyond politics.
It’s about the character of America,” Pelosi said.
“How we go forward in our caucus to put forth our values, which are what unite us a caucus, to differentiate between us and the administration that will come into Washington in January, to take that message clearly to the public, is something that is a historic challenge.”
“We know how to win elections,” she added.
“We’ve done it in the past. We will do it again by making that differentiation.”
Asked about the 63 Democrats who voted for Ryan, Pelosi said, “I got two-thirds of the vote.”
Separately, Ryan told reporters the race didn’t turn out as he wanted but he thinks he did “a pretty good job” of bringing economic issues to the forefront.
“I think we got the message out,” he said.
“I believe in my heart, if we’re going to win as Democrats, we have to have the kind of message that resonates in every corner of this country.”
During the closed-door caucus meeting, several Democrats went to bat for Pelosi. Reps. Adam Schiff (Calif.), Gwen Moore (Wis.), Bill Pascrell (N.J.), Katherine Clark (Mass.), Joaquin Castro (Texas) and Debbie Dingell (Mich.) each gave nominating speeches for her.
“Everything we care about [is] at risk,” Schiff told the room.
“We need the very best to lead us.
No one is a better tactician than Nancy Pelosi. No one does it better. No one even comes close.”
Dingell said she has spoken “endlessly” to Pelosi about appealing to Midwestern voters, and said she gets it.
“Leader Pelosi always listened and she always understood.”
Pelosi’s understanding of Midwesterners, or lack thereof, is what Ryan highlighted as the party’s biggest problem.
He said the California progressive has lost the connection with working-class people in the Midwest ― the same people who make up his district, and the same people who turned out in droves to vote for Trump and help defeat Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton weeks ago.
“When you see working-class people, blue-collar people, going and voting for Trump, that’s a failure of the Democratic Party because they felt like we didn’t care about them,” Ryan said earlier this month.
“That just makes my stomach sick.”
Pelosi did not agree with Ryan’s assessment in a Monday interview with The Huffington Post.
“He didn’t even carry his district for Hillary Clinton, so I don’t know why he’s saying that,” she said.
“I have strong support from our friends in the unions, including steelworkers, which I guess are his area ... I’m a woman of steel in there.”
--- end HPO----

--- start NYT (w error) ----
WASHINGTON — House Democrats on Wednesday rejected appeals that they need new leaders to win back disaffected voters, re-electing Representative Nancy Pelosi of California to an eighth term as House leader over a Rust Belt congressman who said the party had lost its connection to the American working class.
Ms. Pelosi’s victory over Representative Tim Ryan, a 43-year-old congressman from a blue-collar district anchored in Youngstown, Ohio, ensures that the party will be led in the next Congress by the established “coastal” Democrats who have increasingly defined it — Ms. Pelosi, 76, who represents San Francisco, and Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, 66, who has held various leadership posts since 2005.
The leadership elections, conducted by secret ballot behind closed doors, stamped out calls for new leaders.
But while Ms. Pelosi won, 134 to 63, Mr. Ryan’s significant share of the total served as a measure of internal discontent and in some ways a repudiation of Ms. Pelosi’s leadership.
“I think there’s a lot of soul-searching,” said Representative Carolyn B. Maloney of New York.
“And a lot of really wanting to have a plan.”
(FN) For years, support for Ms. Pelosi has run so deep that few would even consider challenging her.
In 2010, after a wave of Tea Party Republicans swept Democrats out of power, she lost just 43 votes.
Ms. Pelosi, whose victory was mockingly cheered by Republicans as good news for them, dismissed the idea that House Democrats could no longer win with her at the helm.
And she vowed that Democrats would continue to stand as a foil to President-elect Donald J. Trump’s administration.
“We know how to win elections,” Ms. Pelosi said.
“We’ve done it in the past. We will do it again by making that differentiation.”
Representative Kurt Schrader of Oregon, who backed Mr. Ryan, said after the vote that unless Democrats changed course and adopted “a working man and woman’s agenda,” they should expect defeat.
“I’m very worried we just signed the Democratic Party’s death certificate for the next decade and a half,” Mr. Schrader said.
Democrats also re-elected Representative Steny H. Hoyer, 77, of Maryland as whip, the No. 2 position, as well as Representative James E. Clyburn, 76, of South Carolina in the No. 3 spot as the assistant Democratic leader.
Mr. Hoyer and Mr. Clyburn have been part of the Democratic leadership team since 2003 and 2007.
Both ran unopposed.
Representative Joseph Crowley of New York was also elected chairman of the House Democratic Caucus, and in a narrow victory, 98 to 96, Representative Linda T. Sánchez of California defeated another California Democrat, Representative Barbara Lee, to become vice chairwoman.
After a dismal Election Day for Democrats, the fight for Ms. Pelosi’s post had become a proxy battle for the future of the party, with House Democrats agonizing over how to reconnect with the working-class voters who abandoned them.
“We got wiped out in the Midwest, and we’re toxic in rural America,” aides said Mr. Ryan told his colleagues behind closed doors before the vote.
“Ultimately, we’re responsible.”
But in an interview Tuesday, Mr. Ryan suggested few ideas for how to appeal to voters beyond essentially crowdsourcing the task to more House Democrats, and he offered no indication that working with the Republican majority on any particular policy compromises would be a priority.
The Democratic leaders seemed short on concrete strategies, too, committing generally to refocus their message on economic issues.
Many also vowed to stand in opposition to the Trump administration, gambling that Mr. Trump and congressional Republicans would disappoint voters and prompt a return to the Democratic Party they rejected.
Some of the more specific strategies considered included starting a more aggressive recruitment campaign for Democratic candidates from more conservative areas, as well as increasing their outreach to traditionally “red” districts.
“Just because you’re only getting 30 percent of the vote in some area doesn’t mean you shouldn’t go there,” said Representative Cedric L. Richmond of Louisiana.
“You should go there and engage people and tell them what you believe in.”
Disappointed by the outcome of the leadership election, a handful of Democrats who had backed Mr. Ryan vowed to press forward with a proposal to turn some jobs, such as the chairman of the party’s campaign arm, into elected positions.
That plan is expected to meet resistance from Ms. Pelosi, who retains the power to appoint people to those positions, though some Democrats have expressed an interest in the idea.
Last week Ms. Pelosi selected Representative Ben Ray Luján of New Mexico to again lead the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, even though House Democrats picked up just six seats in this election.
Though he collected only a dozen or so public endorsements, Mr. Ryan mounted an unlikely challenge to Ms. Pelosi, long considered a legislative and fund-raising powerhouse.
Driven by the conviction that Democrats need a new leader, he tried to harness discontent with a leadership team that has failed three times to reclaim the majority since being swept out in 2010.
Trying to quell calls to replace her, Ms. Pelosi announced her nominations last week for a handful of other positions, and proposed that three members from Illinois, Pennsylvania and New York share the leadership duties of the party’s messaging committee, offering more regional diversity.
She also released plans to incorporate more junior members into leadership roles, among other ideas, such as including a freshman Democrat in the leadership team’s regular meetings.
But each new idea has underscored the fact that Ms. Pelosi refuses to relinquish much power and has cultivated a large, loyal following that does not expect her to.
It is from that sizable collection of House Democrats that she draws her picks for smaller leadership posts, making her a powerful ally and, for those like Mr. Ryan who have challenged her, a formidable opponent.
“She has a lot of friends,” Mr. Ryan said.
“This is her caucus, clearly.”
--- end NYT (w error) ----