--- start HPO----
Senior White House officials significantly raised the stakes on congressional Democrats in their efforts to get a deal passed on the Bush tax cuts, warning on Wednesday that inaction would "significantly increase the risk" of a double dip recession.
It wasn't quite the metaphorical flare of mushroom cloud imagery, but outgoing senior economic adviser Larry Summers offered a fairly dire assessment of the stakes in the tax cut debate.
"If they [Democrats] don't pass this bill in the next couple weeks it will materially increase the risk that the economy would stall out and we would have a double dip," he told a gathering of reporters at an off camera briefing.
A double dip recession?
"What I said it would significantly increase the risk," Summers replied.
The message was hardly subtle. But it certainly was debatable.
Summers himself, downplayed the significance of continuing the Bush tax cuts back in September -- though he was speaking, then, about the rates for the rich and the tax cut deal, at that point in time, did not include money for a 13-month extension of unemployment insurance or other tax incentives to help lower income workers.
Asked whether the country would find itself dipping towards the economic doldrums if Congress waited a month or two to get a tax cut package passed, Rob Shapiro, a former commerce official in the Clinton White House and a proponent of the current tax cut deal, offered more sober-minded analysis.
"The wait would not cause a double dip," he said.
"A double dip would come out of the reality of a relatively contractionary fiscal policy...
I do think the deal that they announced is stimulative.
And it ought to boost growth by some increment...
But the issue is, that the deal certainly is not enough to lift the economy to a different place.
Will we see what happened with the large stimulus happen here, which is once the stimulus is over the economy returns to slow growth? That's the danger.
And I keep on saying this, the single most important thing they can do to avert that is to stabilize housing prices."
Stabilizing the housing market, however, is not on the current congressional docket.
And on Wednesday, the White House began a robust process of selling the deal to Democrats -- skeptical, as they are, about an extension of Bush tax cuts for the wealthy and a generous revision of the estate tax.
There were few carrots to go along with the sticks.
Asked, for instance, if the White House would be willing to revise the informal compromise to bring more Democratic lawmakers on board, White House Press Secretary Robert Gibbs said any changes would be fine, so long as they didn't result in decreased support.
Then he cautioned: "The physics and the blood and the sweat that might be involved in that, I'm not entirely sure I would put it quite as simply as that."
If anything, the pitch being offered from the administration to the rest of the party was: take the package now or risk being blamed for an economic downturn.
"I guess the question back for those who ask [why not fight for more] is where does this go, what is the end game and what are the consequences of playing it?" said senior adviser David Axelrod.
"Do they have a sense of how this ends and how long will that take, because as Larry said there are real consequences to that.
Just as the forecasts went up on the basis of this agreement they will go down if this agreement fails. That we know.
We know that on January 1 people's taxes will go up, we know that at the end of this month 2 million people will lose their unemployment insurance.
And so there are real consequences to that decision.
We, I think we all stipulate, the president did, no one likes those provisions that they dislike but on the other side of the ledger are significant things that will help people and help the economy.
And what we know for sure is that without any of it we are facing a really difficult situation."
Added Gibbs: "I think you would really have to ask somebody who says... lets have some eight week fight and on February the 15th come in and say, alright, now we are ready to make a compromise, who on earth, who on earth thinks that that is somehow going to be a fundamentally better agreement than the one we are looking at right now?
No one I have ever talked to."
--- end HPO----

--- start NYT----
Larry Summers, the outgoing chairman of the National Economic Council, just told a group of reporters that failure to pass a package like the tax deal announced by President Obama this week “would significantly increase the risk” of a double-dip recession.
Mr. Summers made the remarks at a briefing with the White House press secretary Robert Gibbs and David Axelrod, the president’s top political adviser.
The administration has been pushing back hard against criticism from fellow Democrats that the president has caved too much to Republicans.
In brief remarks after meeting with President Bronislaw Komorowski of Poland, Mr. Obama on Wednesday emphatically disputed that Democrats generally feel betrayed by his deal with Congressional Republicans on the tax cuts, saying that “the more who look at it, the more will say this makes sense.”
“I just think it’s very important for Congress to examine the agreement, look at the facts, have a thorough debate, but get this done.
The American people are watching, and they’re expecting action on our parts,” Mr. Obama said.
“I don’t think we need to translate that.”
In a joint appearance at the White House with Mr. Komorowski, Mr. Obama said that “economists across the country have upwardly revised their forecasts for growth” after the tax deal was announced on Monday night.
Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. planned to return to Capitol Hill this afternoon to meet with House Democrats as President Obama and the White House sought to quell the uproar among liberals about the tax deal.
Officials said Mr. Biden will travel to the Hill around 4:30 p.m. in an attempt to sell the compromise Mr. Obama announced this week.
It will be the second time in two days that Mr. Biden has served as the liaison-in-chief for the White House.
Mr. Biden’s visit and the president’s comments come as the administration’s message machine started churning out statements of support.
To counter condemnations from some Democrats in Congress, the White House circulated a series of e-mails quoting endorsements from private-sector economic forecasters, liberal as well as conservative analysts, and Democratic officeholders, including an obscure freshman House member, Representative Gary Peters of Michigan.
By noon, the White House press office had released supportive comments from Antonio Villaraigosa, the mayor of Los Angeles, and Mr. Peters.
The Democratic National Committee alerted reporters that Jennifer Granholm, the Democratic governor of Michigan, also supports the deal.
John Podesta, a former chief of staff to President Bill Clinton and a close ally of Mr. Obama, issued a statement calling the tax deal “a steep price” but saying the president was “right to choose helping working Americans over a December conflagration.” 
The Democratic National Committee also sent that statement around to reporters.
David Axelrod, the president’s chief political adviser, said on CNN’s “American Morning” that middle-class Americans were “going to get screwed” if their tax cuts were not extended at the end of the year.
The administration was quick to highlight comments from Mark Zandi, chief economist for Moody’sEconomy.com, projecting that the Obama tax deal would increase economic growth next year by 1.25 percentage points and create 1.6 million jobs.
Macroeconomic Advisors, Deutsche Bank and Goldman Sachs projected smaller increases but no less than at least 0.5 percentage point.
That is on top of projections that currently are in the range of 2 percent to 3 percent.
But the public relations offensive is being met with public expressions of outrage from Mr. Obama’s base, including the most liberal members of Congress and spokesmen for interest groups on the left.
Close to three dozen House Democrats have signed a letter from Representative Peter Welch, Democrat of Vermont, calling the tax deal “fiscally irresponsible” and “grossly unfair.”
The letter says Mr. Obama “should not back down. Nor should we.”
Mr. Biden’s visit with the House Democrats is likely to be as contentious as the one that he led with their Senate colleagues on Tuesday — if not more so.
Despite the closed-door lunchtime meeting, Senate aides told The Times afterward that about 30 Democratic senators remained “firmly opposed” to the president’s negotiated deal after hearing from the vice president.
In the House, Democratic lawmakers said Wednesday morning that the sense of disappointment with the president remained strong.
“I don’t think it was preordained that if we had a deadlock, they would have won it,” said Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, in an interview on MSNBC.
“I’m not going to vote for it.
I don’t feel that I should be coerced.”
--- end NYT----

--- start FOX (w error) ----
Outgoing White House economic adviser Larry Summers warned Wednesday that failure to pass a new tax cut compromise would significantly raise the risk of a double-dip recession.
"To pass this bill in the next couple of weeks would materially increase the risk that the economy would stall out and we would have a double dip," he told reporters at the White House.
Summers added that he thinks Congress will pass the deal President Obama struck with Republicans, an agreement that has come under withering criticism from liberal Democrats over the two-year extension of tax cuts for the rich as well as the middle class.
Summers said that he doesn't think that Congress would take a step that "materially increases the risk that this economy will stall out."
Positive reviews coming in from economists, Summers said, show the deal is the right thing to do.
Sen. Jon Kyl, the No. 2 Republican in the Senate, told reporters that a tax cut bill could be on the Senate floor as early as Thursday.
But, in a surprise move, Senate Democrats, meeting behind closed doors to discuss the tax deal, have asked the administration for "changes" to the bill, according to Sen Dick Durbin, D-Ill., the No. 2 Democrat in the chamber.
Durbin would not detail what those changes are, deferring to Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, D-Nev.
Kyl said an official analysis and price tag, referred to as a "score," from the Joint Committee on Taxation (JCT) are not yet ready, but that the Senate could move to the bill anyway.
Vice President Biden traveled to the Capitol Wednesday for a private meeting with House Democrats who are resisting the deal, saying it gives away too much to the wealthy.
Some Democrats are unhappy that Obama agreed to extend expiring tax cuts not just for the middle class but also for higher earners, and that he agreed to impose a lower estate tax on wealthy heirs.
Both provisions are seen by many Democrats as giveaways to the rich that will do little to help the economy.
In return, Democrats would get extended jobless benefits for people who have been unemployed for long stretches.
Workers would also see their share of Social Security payroll taxes cut by nearly a third for the coming year, a boost in take-home pay meant to encourage spending and aid the economy.
Liberals are going as far as trying to prevent outgoing House Speaker Nancy Pelosi from bringing the tax cut compromise to the floor.
Reps. Peter DeFazio of Oregon, and Jim McDermott and Jay Inslee of Washington state are crafting a letter to share with the House Democratic Caucus that would try to block the bill from seeing the light of day.
They're hoping to get 60 signatures on their letter and then force a vote in the caucus.
"There does not seem to be a majority of the Democrats who support the deal negotiated by Vice President Biden," he told Fox News.
"So we want to have a record vote in the caucus on a resolution that says this resolution should not go to the floor without a majority of Democratic votes."
DeFazio said House Democrats aren't going to keep rubber-stamping deals they don't like.
"All through this administration, the White House has been a spear carrier for the president," he said.
"They sent something over, the speaker has jammed it through and then Obama has negotiated with the Senate.
And they're trying to get us to jam it through again.
And a number of us are just saying that's enough."
Obama rejected claims that he betrayed Democrats by cutting a deal with Republicans.
(TN) Speaking to reporters at a joint appearance with Polish President Bronislaw Komorowski, Obama said economists predict higher job growth in 2011 and 2012 if Congress passes the agreement and urged lawmakers to examine the details of the deal and "get this done."
But House Democrats are not listening.
"So far, the response has not been very good," Pelosi said.
She called the estate tax provision "a bridge too far."
--- end FOX (w error) ----