--- start HPO----
DANVILLE, Ky. –- Joe Biden did everything President Barack Obama did not last week, and a good bit more.
The vice president dominated the spotlight in the only debate between himself and Rep. Paul Ryan (R-Wis.), charging at Republican Mitt Romney's running mate from the get-go and bombarding him with a flurry of eye rolls, interjections and accusations.
What it accomplished among undecided voters, if anything, is hard to tell and will take days to sort out.
Two instant surveys of Americans watching the debate -- one by CBS, one by CNN -- showed mixed results.
But since vice presidential debates often have a negligible impact on the overall race anyway, Biden's sometimes over-the-top performance probably accomplished what he appeared intent on doing: rallying the Democratic base after Obama's woeful debate performance last week.
Obama, at least, was cheered by the offensive.
"I'm going to make a special point of saying that I thought Joe Biden was terrific tonight," the president told reporters after stepping off Air Force One at Andrews Air Force Base in Maryland, on his way back to the White House after a day of campaigning in Florida.
Biden looked as if he could barely stay in his seat for much of the night, interrupting Ryan repeatedly and sometimes making it difficult for the GOP nominee to get out his answers.
“He had his Red Bull. He certainly had his caffeine,” Sen. John Thune (R-S.D.) said after the debate.
It was a performance by the vice president guaranteed to amp up -– and buck up -– worried Democrats, who had fallen into a paralysis of anxiety after the president's debate.
No one represented that Democratic angst more than blogger Andrew Sullivan, a supporter of the president.
Obama adviser David Axelrod said "Andrew is a unique thinker, and I can't speak for how he might react to this.
I hope he is [reassured]," Axelrod said, adding that he had "high regard for [Sullivan] by the way."
Sullivan, for the record, called the night "a solid win for Biden" and called Ryan "competent."
The Obama campaign team, in the spin room after the debate, focused on repeating the theme that, as Axelrod said, Biden showed "passion" and that he showed "a great concern for the middle class."
Passion was the thing Obama lacked last week, and Romney surprised the president and Democrats by talking constantly about how his policies would help the middle class.
By contrast, Romney operatives in the spin room said Ryan clearly won on substance and composure while Biden devolved into fits of laughter and audible groans.
“I think the way the vice president handled himself was condescending,” said Rep. Jason Chaffetz (R-Utah).
“He was constantly interrupting and trying to talk over people.
When my 11-year-old tries to do that at the dinner table, it’s not tolerated.”
Democrats were intent Thursday night to steal back any edge Romney might have deprived them of in being the party who can appeal to working class and blue-collar voters, and to any voter who considers themselves middle class, which is a large number.
"These guys discovered the phrase 'middle class' during the last six months on the campaign trail," said Rep. Chris Van Hollen (D-Md.), who has sparred with Ryan on the House Budget Committee for years and who played Ryan in debate preparation with Biden.
Though it was Biden at the center of attention and who made it hard for Ryan to get in a word edgewise at times, the 42-year-old kept his composure for much of the night and got in some well-aimed shots at the vice president, who at 69 is his senior by 27 years.
Ryan seemed focused more on winning over moderate and independent voters who are still making up their minds, less than a month before the election.
The night's 90-minute debate, the only one for the two vice presidential candidates, fluctuated between domestic policy and foreign policy, with ABC's Martha Raddatz, a reporter with vast foreign policy experience, asking numerous questions about events overseas.
But the number one goal for Biden all night was obvious from the outset: push back. Hard.
It was the number one thing that Democrats had said Obama should have done last week, and it foreshadowed how the president will approach next Tuesday's debate with Romney, the second of three debates for the two men running for president.
After Ryan finished his opening statement, responding to a question about the death of the U.S. ambassador to Libya in a terrorist attack in Benghazi a month ago, Biden responded: "That's a bunch of malarkey."
"Not a single thing he said is accurate," Biden said.
At times, Biden repeatedly butted in on Ryan's answers, refusing to let Ryan finish his thought.
If it were anyone other than Biden, who is treated by the press as a lovable, half-crazy uncle, he would have been labeled insufferable.
Instead, he got the aggressive label.
Republicans thought it was much more than that.
Republican National Committee spokesman Tim Miller called Biden “unhinged.”
Romney adviser Eric Fehrnstrom tweeted: “Ryan: serious, sober, steady.
Biden: smirking, mocking, immature.”
Some of the more experienced Republicans tried to resist talking about Biden’s behavior, knowing it would come across as complaining.
“Most people probably found the vice president’s performance a little -- well anyway, I think that people will judge for themselves,” said Ed Gillespie, one of the top advisers to Romney and one of the most seasoned Republican operatives in politics.
But not even Gillespie, when he was asked by a reporter where he was going before he cut himself off, could resist getting some digs at Biden.
“I don't know if his staff didn't brief him or not, but somebody should have told him that these debates are split-screen,” Gillespie said.
“There seemed to be some frustration on his part at times, and sometimes I got the impression that he couldn't defend the facts as they were, [so] raise your voice a little louder,” Gillespie said.
The Obama campaign, of course, relished in Republicans’ focus on Biden’s behavior instead of the substance of his remarks.
"Their side is all spending their time talking about laughing and facial tics," said Obama campaign manager Jim Messina.
"You're going to do that when you've lost a debate.
And that's what happened tonight: they lost the debate."
Of course, Biden was so demonstrative, so outsized, that it was hard to talk about anything else.
Biden did another thing Obama did not a week ago.
He raised the issue of Romney’s comments at a fundraiser in May in which he talked disparagingly about people who receive government benefits, claiming that he could “never convince them they should take personal responsibility and care for their lives."
One of Ryan’s best one-liners came when he sought to explain these comments.
Ryan first told a humanizing story about Romney caring for a family whose children were in a car crash, a story clearly prepared to push back against the portrait of Romney as out of touch and uncaring.
And he then added: “With respect to that quote, I think the vice president very well knows that sometimes the words don't come out of your mouth the right way.”
Although there were extended portions of the debate that focused on Libya, Syria, and Afghanistan, Biden and Ryan did engage in a lengthy back-and-forth in the middle of the debate on Medicare and tax policy.
Ryan was, as usual, knowledgeable and in command of the facts.
But Biden, as expected, attempted to plow him over with broadsides.
“Stop talking about how you care about people.
Show me something. Show me a policy,” Biden said.
Ryan smiled, and continued to work through a data-filled argument, mentioning the $831 billion stimulus, an 8 percent unemployment rate for 43 months, the 1.3 percent growth rate of the economy, the $90 billion for green energy programs in the stimulus, and the 12 million jobs he and Romney say their economic program would create.
Biden didn’t worry so much about numbers.
Biden’s argument on Medicare was aimed at voters’ guts, much more so than minds.
He acknowledged that Romney’s Medicare plan would not cost seniors an extra $6,400 a year, despite the claim in a recently launched Obama campaign ad.
The $6,400 figure is based on a study of one of Ryan’s earlier plans for Medicare, which he has since changed to make it more bipartisan.
Biden, aware of this, told voters they should be suspicious somebody “who would actually put in motion a plan that … added $6,400 a year more to the cost of Medicare?”
--- end HPO----

--- start NYT----
Joe Biden knew Lloyd Bentsen.
Lloyd Bentsen was a friend of Joe Biden’s.
And the vice president made full use of his old Senate colleague’s 1988 debate playbook, shaking his head and scoffing pityingly at Representative Paul D. Ryan, trying to paint his opponent as a latter-day Dan Quayle.
Mr. Ryan was no Dan Quayle, but he did make the mistake of mentioning John F. Kennedy in an argument over whether tax cuts recharge the economy.
Mr. Biden flashed a Cheshire Cat grin and said to Ryan, after waiting a beat to let the moment sink in, “So, now you’re Jack Kennedy?”
The vice presidential debate on Tuesday was supposed to be a reboot for the Obama campaign after the president’s dismal performance at his debate with the Republican nominee for president, Mitt Romney, last week.
Mr. Biden, clearly delighted to come to President Obama’s rescue, relished his role, addressing his opponent as “my friend” but dismissing his arguments as “malarkey.”
He laughed at Mr. Ryan’s remarks so often and so heartily that at times he seemed like a guest at a comedy club roast, not a vice president debating the fate of the nation with his opponent.
It was a sharp and spirited debate, with both candidates delivering some lacerating blows, but Mr. Ryan at times seemed disconcerted by the sheer blowhard intensity Mr. Biden brought to the night.
Mr. Ryan tried to be respectful, listening to the vice president with a tilted head, choirboy smile and puppy-dog eyes, but he showed his irritation when Mr. Biden kept interrupting to attack his policy on Medicare.
“I know you’re under duress,” he told the vice president, prompting another belly laugh.
For Mr. Biden especially, the night was his chance to relive past debates and unleash his inner barroom brawler.
He had to be contained and courteous when he debated Sarah Palin four years ago, lest he look like a bully.
This time he let loose.
And unlike the courtly Mr. Bentsen in 1988, Mr. Biden turned his temperature up, singeing the young man across the table with patronizing grins, but mostly withering retorts.
His interruptive barrage was as relentless as his silent mugging for the camera.
Mr. Ryan held his own, but did look abashed when Mr. Biden mocked him for opposing the Obama stimulus, yet asking for government funds for his own district.
“On two occasions, we — we — we advocated for constituents who were applying for grants,” Mr. Ryan said stiffly.
“I love that. I love that,” Mr. Biden said.
“This was such a bad program, and he writes me a letter saying — writes the Department of Energy a letter saying, the reason we need this stimulus — it will create growth and jobs.”
When Mr. Biden went after Mr. Romney’s infamous remark at a private fund-raiser about the “47 percent,” Mr. Ryan reminded the vice president of his own propensity for gaffes.
“I think the vice president very well knows that sometimes the words don’t come out of your mouth the right way,” he said with a gotcha smile.
Mr. Biden was not quite as amused.
Mr. Biden was not the only one in the room intent on rectifying his predecessor’s mistakes.
Martha Raddatz of ABC News was the moderator, and she made a point of speaking forcefully, pushing the candidates to be specific and changing subjects abruptly.
She seemed determined to be less passive and sleepy than Jim Lehrer of PBS was as moderator of the Obama-Romney debate.
Mr. Ryan made a point of praising Mr. Romney, even trying to soften his image by recounting a time when Mr. Romney gave money and attention to a couple whose children were badly injured in a car accident.
It wasn’t the best example to use, because it prompted Mr. Biden to describe his own tragedy, when his wife and young daughter were killed in a car crash.
A version of this article appears in print on October 12, 2012, on page A16 of the New York edition with the headline: Night of Withering Ripostes, Mostly Delivered by Biden.
--- end NYT----

--- start FOX (w error) ----
In a head-to-head battle of proxies, Vice President Biden wasted no time Thursday trying to do what many Democrats felt President Obama failed to against Mitt Romney, going on offense with an often disdainful attack on Paul Ryan -- who stood his ground against a barrage of Biden grins, guffaws, snickers and interruptions.
The dueling running mates turned the lone vice presidential debate into an uncharacteristically feisty affair, scrapping over everything from the economy to Libya to taxes.
But it was the vice president who set the aggressive tone, blatantly striving to hit the reset after President Obama was panned for his lackluster performance at last week's opening debate.
If Obama was too cold, Biden at times bordered on too hot, analysts said afterward.
He chuckled and smirked through many of Ryan's responses.
But unlike Obama a week ago, he let few points go unchallenged.
Biden went after the Romney/Ryan ticket with a directness that Obama did not.
Notably, he hammered Mitt Romney over his secretly videotaped comment in which he said he doesn't have to worry about the "47 percent" of Americans who don't pay federal income taxes.
"These people are my mom and dad, the people I grew up with, my neighbors," Biden said, adding he's "had it up to here" with those kinds of comments.
Ryan shot back, in reference to Biden's tendency to make gaffes: "As the vice president very well knows ... sometimes the words don't come out of your mouth the right way."
"But I always say what I mean," Biden responded.
Ryan accused Obama of "projecting weakness" with his foreign policy, particularly in his response to the terror attack on the U.S. Consulate in Benghazi, Libya.
At home, he accused the administration of presiding over a shoddy recovery.
"This is not what a real recovery looks like," Ryan said.
Whether the debate will alter the course of the race remains to be seen.
There are two more presidential debates on the calendar, and the polls have started to swing in Romney's favor.
The tightening was reflected in the candidates' attitude onstage Thursday, each loath to give the other too many seconds of speech-time without a challenge.
The economy, the budget deficit and foreign policy were central.
Each candidate made frequent appeals to the middle class, Biden by pledging to protect programs in the federal budget and Ryan by pledging to grow the economy for everybody.
(TN) Ryan opened the debate with tough criticism of the Obama administration over its handling of the Libya terror attack.
"What we are watching on our TV screens is the unraveling of the Obama foreign policy," Ryan said.
With the moderator, ABC News' Martha Raddatz, opening the debate with a question about the Libya strike, which happened a month ago Thursday, Ryan criticized the administration for waiting more than a week after the strike to call it a coordinated terror attack.
"This is becoming more troubling by the day.
They first blamed the YouTube video.
Now they're trying to blame the Romney/Ryan ticket for making this an issue," he said.
Ryan was referring to a claim by an Obama aide earlier Thursday that the only reason the attack had entered the political debate was because of Romney's criticism - a claim Romney rejected.
Biden was quick to retort: "With all due respect, that's just a bunch of malarkey.
... Not a single thing he said is accurate."
He added: "This talk about this weakness, I don't understand what my friend's talking about."
Biden also criticized Romney for making a "political statement"on the night of the attack, a reference to Romney's criticism of the U.S. Embassy in Cairo's early response to protests there.
On the question of why the administration initially claimed the attack was the result of a protest, Biden explained "the intelligence community told us that."
The face-off Thursday night was taking on outsized importance for a vice presidential debate.
After Obama's debate performance last week, the pressure was on Biden to recapture the momentum -- while equally on Ryan to prevent the Obama ticket from blunting Romney's surge.
Ryan referred to the weight on Biden's shoulders about mid-way through, as the two talked over each other on Medicare.
"Mr. vice president, I know you're under a lot of duress to make up for lost ground, but I think people would be better served if we don't keep interrupting each other," Ryan said.
On Medicare, Biden charged that the Republican ticket's plan would raise costs for future seniors with a de facto "voucher" system.
"Their ideas are old and their ideas are bad and they eliminate the guarantee of Medicare," he said.
Ryan shot back: "They got caught with their hand in the cookie jar turning Medicare into a piggy bank for ObamaCare."
The debate veered across the spectrum of topics from the campaign trail.
On Iran's nuclear program, Biden repeatedly suggested Romney and Ryan would too readily choose the military option to stop it.
On abortion, he cautioned that the next president will get to choose one or two justices on the Supreme Court -- "that's how close Roe v. Wade is."
Ryan, toward the end of the debate, warned that a "debt crisis is coming" and claimed the sitting president offers little more than speeches to address the deficit.
"That's what we get in this administration -- speeches.
But we're not getting leadership," he said.
In a matter of days, Romney has picked up steam in both battleground and national polls.
The latest Fox News national poll of likely voters showed Romney edging Obama, 46 percent to 45 percent.
Obama has acknowledged he had a "bad night" in his debate last week, but the campaign indicates it will be more aggressive going forward.
After Biden's more feisty performance Thursday, Obama campaign manager Jim Messina quipped that he's a "happy warrior" for the middle class.
The final presidential debates will be held Oct. 16 and Oct. 22.
The next one will be a town hall format focusing on a range of issues, and the last one will focus exclusively on foreign policy.
--- end FOX (w error) ----