--- start FOX----
Following President Obama's comments in a TV interview expressing his support for same-sex marriage, his likely GOP rival Mitt Romney said Wednedsay he maintains his opposition to it -- the same position he's had since he "started running for office"
"I have the same view on marriage that I had when I was governor and that I expressed many times.
I believe marriage is between a man and a woman," he told reporters following an event at the Oklahoma Republican Party headquartersk, where he garnered the endorsement of Oklahoma Gov. Mary Fallin.
Obama made the groundbreaking news in an interview with ABC.
"It is important for me personally to go ahead and affirm that same-sex couples should be able to get married," Obama stated.
He previously had said he supported equal rights for same-sex couples but stopped short of endorsing gay marriage.
When asked if he believed the president had flip-flopped on the issue, Romney said it's up to the public to be the judge.
“I believe that based upon the interview that he gave today on ABC it said that he had changed his view, but you’re a better judge of that than I," Romney said.
"I just saw the reports that he had previously said he opposed same-sex marriage and now according to ABC News he saying that he supports it.
If that’s the case then you’ll be able to make that determination on your own."
Last year Romney had signed a pledge sponsored by the National Organization for Marriage promising to support a federal ammendment defining marriage as the union of one man and one woman.
On Wednedsay, though, he said that the rights of domestic partners should be decided by the states.
“States are able to make decisions with regards to domestic partnership benefits such as hospital visitation rights, benefits and so forth of various kinds can be determined state by state," Romney said.
Following Romney's news conference, Obama's campaign immediately pounced on the former governor's comments.
Ben Labolt tweeted, "@MittRomney just refused to say he supports hospital visitation rights at a federal level for gays and lesbians."
--- end FOX----

--- start HPO----
Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney on Wednesday reiterated that he opposes same-sex marriage, a few hours after President Barack Obama said for the first time he supports it.
"My view is that marriage itself is a relationship between a man and a woman and that's my own preference," Romney told reporters in Oklahoma.
"I know other people have differing views.
This is a very tender and sensitive topic, as are many social issues, but I have the same view that I've had since running for office."
Obama came out in support of same-sex marriage on Wednesday in an interview with ABC.
The announcement prompted a flurry of responses, from Democrats praising his statements to Republicans decrying them.
Romney said he supports states' rights to make decisions on domestic partnership benefits, including hospital visitation.
Obama, while saying he personally supports same-sex marriage, also said the issue should be left to the states to decide.
Romney's comments were far more measured than some other Republicans, who have openly accused the president of disrespecting religion and using the issue for political gain.
Former GOP candidate Rick Santorum, for example, put out a statement shortly after Romney's remarks that claimed Obama "has consistently fought against protecting the institution of marriage from radical social engineering at both the state and federal level."
When asked whether Obama flip-flopped on same-sex marriage -- an accusation Romney has some experience with -- the presumptive Republican presidential nominee acknowledged the president's change, but said he'd leave the significance for others to decide.
“I believe that, based upon the interview he gave today on ABC, it said that he had changed his view, but you’re a better judge of that than I am," Romney said.
“I just saw the reports that he had previously said he opposed same sex marriage and now, according to ABC News, he said that he supports it.
So if that’s the case you’ll have to make that determination on your own."
Romney told a local Denver TV station earlier on Wednesday that he opposes both same-sex marriage and civil unions.
"Well, when these issues were raised in my state of Massachusetts, I indicated my view, which is I do not favor marriage between people of the same gender, and I do not favor civil unions if they are identical to marriage other than by name," Romney told Denver Fox affiliate KDVR-TV.
--- end HPO----

--- start NYT (w error) ----
Like many conservative Republicans, Mitt Romney is opposed not only to same-sex marriage, but also to the civil unions that many states have adopted as an alternative to full marital rights for gay couples.
(TN) Now that President Obama, long a supporter of civil unions, has publicly embraced same-sex marriage, the question of precisely what legal status and protections should be granted to gay couples is emerging as an issue of the starkest possible contrast between the two presidential candidates.
In short, both Mr. Romney and Mr. Obama have adopted the favored position of their ideological base on a subject that profoundly animates both of those camps.
On Wednesday, in anticipation of Mr. Obama’s announcement, Mr. Romney laid out his belief that marriage — and anything resembling it — should be restricted to heterosexual couples, even as he acknowledged that it was “a very tender and sensitive topic.”
In doing so, he left open many questions about what his vision of legally recognizable gay unions would encompass, and what it would exclude.
“My view is the same as it’s been from the beginning,” Mr. Romney told a CBS affiliate in Denver.
“I don’t favor civil unions if it’s identical to marriage, and I don’t favor marriage between people of the same gender.”
Asked why he opposed civil unions, in particular, he explained that in many cases they represent marriage by a different name for gay couples.
“If a civil union is identical to marriage other than with the name, why, I don’t support that,” he said Wednesday.
Nine states, including California, Delaware and New Jersey, now allow civil unions and broad domestic partnerships that most likely fit Mr. Romney’s description of marriage-like arrangements, meaning that they would be in the cross hairs of a President Romney, who supports a constitutional amendment to ban same-sex marriage.
Those states offer an array of different rights to same-sex couples, among them the ability to pool resources for tax purposes, place a spouse on an employee health care plan and inherit property after a death.
Mr. Romney has said that he favors allowing domestic partnerships that bestow certain rights on same-sex couples, like hospital visitation, but he has not delineated them in great detail.
“Benefits of that nature may well be appropriate, and states are able to make a provision for the determination of those kinds of rights,” Mr. Romney said Wednesday.
Republicans and Democrats, in their reactions to the president’s support for same-sex marriage, said they saw a newly wide, and seemingly unbridgeable, gap between the two leaders on the issue.
“We now have a clear choice between Romney and Obama,” said Maggie Gallagher, a founder of the National Organization for Marriage, which opposes same-sex marriage.
She called the president’s decision “a huge mistake” that would reward the Republican Party.
Evan Wolfson, the founder of Freedom to Marry, a gay rights organization, said that now “there is absolutely no way that opponents of gay rights can hide behind any unclarity in the president’s position and make the bogus claim that it’s the same as theirs.”
Mr. Romney has, over the years, made it clear that his opposition to same-sex marriage and civil unions is a deeply held moral conviction, and he has not shied from using strong language to describe the offense he has taken to its introduction.
When in 2003 the Massachusetts courts legalized same-sex marriage in the state, Mr. Romney, then governor, complained that the state had become “San Francisco East.”
And, speaking with a sense of alarm about gay couples, he warned a conservative audience that “some are actually having children born to them.”
Democrats contend that, like Mr. Obama’s views, Mr. Romney’s feelings about gay rights have evolved, but in the opposite direction: During his campaign for the Senate in 1994, Mr. Romney vowed to seek “full equality” for gays and lesbians, in a letter to the Log Cabin Republicans of Massachusetts.
In that letter he argued that he was more supportive of gay rights than his Democratic opponent at the time, Senator Edward M. Kennedy.
But at the time, same-sex marriage was a little-discussed item on the agenda of national gay rights leaders, and aides say Mr. Romney has consistently opposed both marriage and civil unions that resemble marriage for gay couples.
--- end NYT (w error) ----