--- start FOX----
The NAACP adopted a resolution Tuesday condemning "racist elements" in the Tea Party movement and calling on the movement's leaders to repudiate bigotry, despite claims from Tea Partiers that the measure is just a political ploy.
The nation's leading civil rights group took up the language at its annual convention in Kansas City, Mo.
The resolution initially said the NAACP would "repudiate the racism of the Tea Parties" and stand against the movement's attempt to "push our country back to the pre-civil rights era," though the wording was amended to downplay criticism of all Tea Partiers while asking them to repudiate bigots in their own ranks.
"We take no issue with the Tea Party movement.
We believe in freedom of assembly and people raising their voices in a democracy," the NAACP President Benjamin Todd Jealous said in a written statement announcing the unanimous vote.
"What we take issue with is the Tea Party's continued tolerance for bigotry and bigoted statements.
"The time has come for them to accept the responsibility that comes with influence and make clear there is no place for racism and anti-Semitism, homophobia and other forms of bigotry in their movement."
NAACP leaders have referenced an incident in March when Tea Party protesters allegedly hurled racial epithets at black lawmakers on Capitol Hill ahead of a health care vote.
But Tea Party members have challenged claims that their activists accosted black lawmakers in March and no visual evidence has been produced depicting a racist attack.
Dallas Tea Party founder Phillip Dennis said "there was no proof" of racist behavior at the event and that the movement welcomes minority members.
"We don't care about the pigment of one's skin," he said.
Dennis accused the NAACP of playing the "race card" and called the organization "irrelevant."
The nearby St. Louis Tea Party had an all-hands-on-deck response to the NAACP's plan.
The group has drafted a resolution of its own condemning the civil rights group for reducing itself to a "bigoted" and "partisan attack dog organization."
Debate was mostly closed to the public, but the final version "calls on the tea party and all people of good will to repudiate the racist element and activities within the tea party," said Hilary Shelton, director of the NAACP's Washington bureau.
The final wording won't be released until the NAACP's national board of directors approves the resolution during its meeting in October.
But the original called for the NAACP to "educate its membership and the community that this movement is not just about higher taxes and limited government."
It said something could evolve "and become more dangerous for that small percentage of people that really think our country has been taken away from them."
In a matter of hours, the St. Louis group fired off to the NAACP the statement demanding the organization withdraw its "bigoted, false and inflammatory" resolution.
The missive accused the NAACP of resorting to political tactics and urged the IRS to reconsider whether it can continue to qualify for tax-exempt status.
Tea Party organizers routinely defend themselves against charges of racism, disavowing racially charged signs that appear in their protest crowds and provide fodder for Tea Party critics.
The NAACP resolution, first reported by the Kansas City Star, was expected to make reference to the March incident on Capitol Hill.
St. Louis Tea Party organizer Bill Hennessy wrote on the group's website Tuesday that the Tea Party stands for smaller government and fiscal responsibility, and accused the NAACP of abandoning black America.
"When you look at the crime and poverty and family breakdown of the African-American community ... you see a half-century of failure by the NAACP," he wrote.
"None of those persistent problems was caused by the Tea Party movement, yet the principles of the Tea Party are exactly what's needed to wind down the multigenerational destruction in the African-American community.
"The NAACP was once a vital weapon in the war against segregation and oppression.
All that's left is a bigoted and malicious shell that does far more harm than good for people who need a break," he wrote.
Fellow St. Louis Tea Party organizer Dana Loesch accused the NAACP of morphing into a political organization.
“They no longer prioritize civil rights,” she told Fox News.
--- end FOX----

--- start HPO----
KANSAS CITY, Mo. — Leaders of the country's largest civil rights organization accused tea party activists on Tuesday of tolerating bigotry and approved a resolution condemning racism within the political movement.
The resolution was adopted during the annual convention in Kansas City of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, spokesman Chris Fleming said.
Tea party organizers disputed claims of racism and called on the NAACP to withdraw the resolution.
Debate was mostly closed to the public, but the final version "calls on the tea party and all people of good will to repudiate the racist element and activities within the tea party," said Hilary Shelton, director of the NAACP's Washington bureau.
"I hope it will empower the tea party to actually look at itself and see that there are those who are noticing things that I think most tea partiers don't want," he said.
Sarah Palin, a vocal tea party supporter, said in a statement late Tuesday that she was "saddened by the NAACP's claim that patriotic Americans ... are somehow 'racists.'"
The former Alaska governor said claims that tea party activists "judge people by the color of their skin" were false and appalling.
The final wording won't be released until the NAACP's national board of directors approves the resolution during its meeting in October.
But the original called for the NAACP to "educate its membership and the community that this movement is not just about higher taxes and limited government."
It said something could evolve "and become more dangerous for that small percentage of people that really think our country has been taken away from them."
"We felt the time had come to stand up and say, 'It's time for the tea party to be responsible members of this democracy and make sure they don't tolerate bigots or bigotry among their members,'" NAACP President Ben Jealous said ahead of the debate.
"We don't have a problem with the tea party's existence.
We have an issue with their acceptance and welcoming of white supremacists into their organizations," he said.
Tea party activist Alex Poulter, who co-founded a Kansas City-area group called Political Chips, also disputed the allegations.
He said the movement is made up of a "diverse group of folks who are upset with what is going on with this country."
Poulter said he has seen no evidence of racism within the movement.
"It's unfounded, but people are running with these accusations like they are true," he said.
A group called the St. Louis Tea Party issued its own resolution Tuesday calling on the NAACP to withdraw the proposal.
Though not affiliated with either major political party, tea party activists espouse a political philosophy of less government, a free market, lower taxes, individual rights and political activism.
The group has faced occasional claims of racism, most notably in March near the end of the bitter health care debate.
U.S. Reps. John Lewis, Andre Carson and Emanuel Cleaver said some demonstrators, many of them tea party activists, yelled a racial epithet as the black congressmen walked from House office buildings to the Capitol.
Cleaver, D-Mo., also said he was spit on.
A white lawmaker said he also heard the epithets, but conservative activists said the lawmakers were lying.
"They are pulling people together and focusing on the negative, and then it's hard to make anything positive out of that," said Anita L. Russell, president of the Kansas City, Mo., branch of the NAACP, which introduced the resolution.
"And then these groups, these extremist groups, are looking for something, and they are latching on to this."
--- end HPO----

--- start NYT (w error) ----
One of the nation’s largest and oldest civil rights groups passed a resolution Tuesday calling for Tea Party groups to weed “racist elements” out of their ranks.
Delegates at the annual convention of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People approved the measure Tuesday in Kansas City.
Benjamin Todd Jealous, the president of the N.A.A.C.P., said the resolution was not an attempt to label the entire Tea Party movement as racist.
But he said the groups needed to do more to distance themselves from known hate groups that actively encourage their members to join the Tea Party.
“To this point, we have avoided calling them out and demanding them to be responsible,” Mr. Jealous said.
“Now we’re saying that with increased public attention, increased power, comes the responsibility to act responsibly.”
He added: “Knowing that the consequence of silence is violence in these times, we’re saying stand up and say enough is enough.
(TN) They need to make clear that there is no place for the bigots in the Tea Party movement.”
The resolution did not go over well with Tea Party groups and their supporters.
Sarah Palin, the 2008 Republican vice presidential nominee, weighed in to defend the Tea Party movement on Monday when the resolution was proposed.
On Fox News’ “Hannity,” she called on the Obamas to rebuke the N.A.A.C.P. and “set the record the straight.”
The St. Louis Tea Party Coalition issued its own resolution against the N.A.A.C.P., accusing the civil rights body of acting as a “partisan political attack dog” and calling on the Internal Revenue Service to review the group’s tax-exempt status.
The Tea Party movement has been beset with allegations of racism since black members of Congress preparing to vote on health care legislation accused protesters of hurling racial epithets, and in one instance, spitting on a congressman.
Tea Party groups say there is no racism within the movement.
--- end NYT (w error) ----