--- start FOX----
The House vote to reaffirm that "In God We Trust" is the U.S. motto is "not putting people back to work," President Obama said Wednesday in a speech pushing his jobs bill.
"I trust in God, but God wants to see us help ourselves by putting people back to work," the president said during a speech at Key Bridge in Washington, D.C., where he was highlighting the need for federal funding of infrastructure repairs nationwide.
Asked later in the day whether it was fair to invoke God in the debate over the Congressional schedule, White House Press Secretary Jay Carney said, "Yeah, I think it's a fair jab if I do say so myself."
"I believe that phrase from the Bible is 'the Lord helps those who help themselves.'
And I think the point the president is making is that, you know, we should -- we have it within our capacity to do the things to help the American people.
And that's why he's working so hard to get Congress to take action on the American Jobs Act and the provisions therein," Carney told reporters at his daily briefing.
The phrase quoted by Carney is not in the Bible, though it is often mistaken as a verse.
Later when the official White House briefing transcript was released, there was an asterik, to Carney's statement, "* This common phrase does not appear in the Bible," it read.
Carney said the particular reference by the president to God was made in the context of "inaction by the House of Representatives, which has spent time on issues like commemorative Hall-of-Fame baseball coins and reaffirming a motto that I don't think anyone doubted, is that ‘In God We Trust' is our motto.
So his point was simply that the House should get busy with matters of great importance to the United States and to the American people."
During his remarks, the president also called out House Speaker John Boehner for what the administration has made a drumbeat over the last week -- a do-nothing Congress.
"What have you guys been debating, John? You've been debating a commemorative coin for baseball?" Obama said.
The House resolution on the national motto passed Tuesday was introduced by Rep. Randy Forbes, R-Va., and considered under an expedited floor procedure.
It passed in a 396-9 vote.
After the vote, Rep. Bobby Scott, D-Va., one of the nine lawmakers to vote against the resolution, said the nation faces bigger problems, such as the economy, failing public schools and poverty.
"Instead of facing these challenges and creating jobs to help American people make sure they have a roof over their head and food on their table, we are debating whether or not to affirm and proliferate a motto that was adopted in 1956 and is under no threat of attack," he said.
House Republicans have argued that the procedural votes don't take up very much time.
They add that they have brought up 15 bills that they contend will help create jobs but have been ignored in the Democratic-led Senate.
The Senate is preparing to take up a portion of the president's jobs bill - on infrastructure -- after the $447 billion jobs package failed when offered as a whole.
Carney contended that Congress wouldn't be focused at all on jobs if not for the president's power of persuasion.
"If not for the president's insistence on pushing the American Jobs Act, would we be having a debate about jobs and the economy right now in Washington or would Congress be -- or the Republicans in Congress be so divorced from the reality that Americans are encountering every day that they would be debating matters wholly unrelated to the primary concerns of the American people?
I think that's possible.
I mean, I know that Democrats would be out there pushing this, and certainly the president is," he said.
--- end FOX----

--- start NYT----
President Obama on Wednesday visited another bridge in need of repair – this one somewhat closer to home, between Washington and Virginia — to promote his job-creation proposals as the Senate began the latest partisan debate over his plans.
But in pressing for approval of $60 billion in infrastructure spending, Mr. Obama took his biggest shot not at the measure’s Republican opponents in the Senate, but at those in the House.
He tweaked House Republicans for passing a resolution on Tuesday reaffirming the national motto, “In God We Trust,” when they should be creating jobs.
“I trust in God,” Mr. Obama said, “but God wants to see us help ourselves by putting people back to work!”
Invoking patriotism as well as divine intervention – Mr. Obama stood against the backdrop of a giant American flag – he spoke before an audience that included unemployed construction workers, whose industry is among the hardest hit by the housing bust.
“I’m joining many of these workers to say that it makes absolutely no sense when there’s so much work to be done that they’re not doing the work,” Mr. Obama said to their applause.
“Not when there are so many roads and bridges and runways waiting to be repaired and waiting to be rebuilt.”
The president’s short trip from the White House to the event stage on the Potomac riverfront came more than a month after he began campaigning throughout the country for his jobs plan, building public pressure on Republicans but winning no votes from them.
Mr. Obama singled out the Republican leaders of the House and Senate – Speaker John A. Boehner of Ohio and Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the minority leader – just as he did in September when he visited an aging bridge over the Ohio River that connects their two states.
Mr. Obama said the two leaders and other Republicans had supported public-works investments in the past.
But Republicans oppose Mr. Obama’s $447 billion job-creation plan, which also includes tax cuts for workers and employers and state aid to avoid layoffs of teachers, police officers and firefighters, because the package would be paid for with higher taxes on those with taxable income of more than $1 million a year.
For the same reason, some leading business groups, including the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the Associated General Contractors of America, have withdrawn support for the infrastructure spending bill, though Mr. Obama cited the Chamber as a supporter in his remarks.
The House has declined to take up Mr. Obama’s jobs package, while Senate Democrats could not muster the 60 votes needed to block a Republican filibuster against either the full $447 billion package or a $35 billion piece providing state aid, mostly for teachers’ pay.
With White House support, Senate Democrats have broken the measure into its main parts to force Republicans to take a series of tough votes on proposals, each of which has broad public support, according to polls.
“The American people are with me with this,” Mr. Obama said.
“And it’s time for folks running around spending all their time talking about what’s wrong with America to spend some time rolling up their sleeves to help us make it right.
There’s nothing wrong in this country that we can’t fix.”
The outcome in the Senate on the infrastructure spending provision, however, is not expected to be any different from the previous two votes.
Mr. Obama’s transportation secretary, Ray LaHood, a former Republican congressman from Illinois, appeared with him at the Key Bridge and then went to the Capitol to meet with lawmakers.
In response to Mr. Obama, House Republicans said the Democratic-controlled Senate should take up some 16 House-passed measures; most would attack federal regulations or spending and would have long-term impact, analysts say, but they would not spur job creation in the coming year or two.
Mr. Boehner facetiously said that Mr. Obama, as a former Democratic senator, could help: “I’m sure he has great influence over there in terms of getting them to take up these bills that really will help put the American people back to work.”
--- end NYT----

--- start HPO (w error) ----
President Barack Obama urged lawmakers to move on the transportation funding portion of his jobs bill Wednesday, while simultaneously mocking them for spending time on supposedly less-important undertakings, such as a recent measure to reaffirm "In God We Trust" as the national motto.
In a speech from beneath the D.C. area's Key Bridge, Obama told spectators that Congress had time to bring up votes on aspects of the American Jobs Act, but were instead dealing with more frivolous legislation.
"And if Congress tells you they don't have time, they've got time to do it," Obama said.
"In the House of Representatives, what have you guys been doing, John?" Obama continued, calling out Speaker of the House John Boehner (R-Ohio).
"You've been debating a commemorative coin for baseball.
You've had legislation reaffirming that 'In God We Trust' is our motto.
That's not putting people back to work.
I trust in God, but God wants to see us help ourselves by putting people back to work."
On Wednesday, the House voted 396-9 on a bill that reaffirmed the motto and encouraged its display in all public schools and government buildings.
The bill's sponsor, Rep. Randy Forbes (R-Va.) had argued that some people, including Obama, needed to be reminded of the motto.
"Almost a year ago, the president in making a speech across the world said that our national motto was 'E pluribus unum,'" Forbes said.
"When the [U.S. Capitol] Visitor Center was opened ... they did not have the national motto in there.
In fact, they inscribed in the stones that our national motto was 'E pluribus unum.'"
In a speech in Jakarta last year, Obama remarked that the American "motto is E pluribus unum -- out of many, one."
Officially, this wasn't correct.
(TN) Minnesota congresswoman and now-GOP presidential candidate Michele Bachmann and other members of the Congressional Prayer Caucus piled on weeks later, penning a letter to Obama chastising him for his alleged failure to the use the word "God" and "Creator" more in his public speeches, especially abroad.

--- end HPO (w error) ----