--- start FOX----
John Boehner is setting expectations high -- but apparently not too high -- for this year's congressional elections, telling Fox News that the Democrats have a chance of retaking the House.
The House speaker, in an interview with Fox News to air Tuesday morning, gave his Republican Party a "two-in-three chance" of holding on to control of the House after taking power in the 2010 elections.
"But there's a one-in-three chance we could lose," Boehner said.
"I'm being myself -- frank.
We've got a big challenge, and we've got work to do."
Democrats face an uphill battle in their efforts to take back the House, where Republicans hold a 242-190 seat advantage.
And control of the Senate could be up for grabs this year, too, with Democrats clinging to a fragile six-vote majority.
The oddsmakers who track congressional races with obsessive dedication project a handful of pickups for Republicans in the Senate -- but not necessarily enough to get to 51.
In the House, a flurry of redistricting decisions appears to be working as of late in the Democrats' favor, though the chaotic process has stung both parties repeatedly.
The Democrats would need 25 seats in the House to regain the majority -- a very steep climb in a year when neither party is particularly popular.
However, Democrats are thought to have far more safe seats than Republicans going into November.
Earlier this year, the Rothenberg Political Report projected a Democratic pick-up of between five and 12 seats.
In total, 33 Senate seats are in play this year, with 23 currently held by Democrats and 10 held by Republicans.
Ten of those 33 seats are open -- again, the state of play is in the Republicans' favor, with seven held by Democrats and three held by Republicans.
But while Republicans have several opportunities to pick off those Democrat-held seats, three races in particular could undermine those potential gains for the GOP. Republican Sens. Scott Brown in Massachusetts and Dean Heller in Nevada, who was appointed to fill the vacancy left by John Ensign, are both considered vulnerable.
And Sen. Olympia Snowe, a Republican from Maine, said she wouldn't seek re-election this year.
--- end FOX----

--- start NYT----
Speaker John A. Boehner of Ohio said on Monday that Republicans had a one-in-three chance of losing control of the House in November, a surprisingly downbeat assessment from a Republican leader who until now has expressed no fears of losing the gavel.
In an interview with Fox News, to be shown on Tuesday, Mr. Boehner delivered what aides called a wake-up call to his troops.
“I would say that there is a two-in-three chance that we win control of the House again, but there’s a one-in-three chance that we could lose, and I’m being myself, frank,” he said in an interview first posted online by the newspaper The Hill.
“We’ve got a big challenge, and we’ve got work to do.”
Mr. Boehner pointed to what aides called “orphan districts” in Democratic-leaning states that would not be a factor in the presidential campaign.
Local Republican Party affiliates are less organized in such states and turnout may be depressed.
“We have 50 of our members in tough races, 89 freshmen running for their first re-elections, and we have 32 districts that are in states where there is no presidential campaign going to be run, no big Senate race,” he said.
“You take 18 of them, California, Illinois and New York, where you know we’re not likely to do well at the top of the ticket, and those districts are frankly pretty vulnerable.”
House political analysts also have looked at such states, but redistricting in California – run by an independent commission – has been as tough on Democrats as it has been on Republicans.
Illinois and New York could be a problem for Mr. Boehner’s party, but Republican-run redistricting in North Carolina and Indiana would appear to counter those Democratic gains.
But Democrats have become bolder on their predictions.
An NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll last week found that voters favored a Democratic-controlled Congress over a Republican one 46 percent to 41 percent, a spread that has not changed much all year.
“We’ve got a real challenge,” Mr. Boehner said.
--- end NYT----

--- start HPO (w error) ----
House Speaker John Boehner (R-Ohio) admitted there's a "1 in 3" chance that the Republicans will lose their majority in the House of Representatives in an interview Tuesday on Fox News' "America’s Newsroom."
"I would say that there is a 2 in 3 chance that we win control of the House again.
But there’s a 1 in 3 chance that we could lose.
And I’m being myself, frank, we’ve got a big challenge and we’ve got work to do," he said to Fox News' Bill Hemmer.
Expanding on tough races, Boehner said, "We have 50 of our members in tough races; 89 freshmen running for their first re-elections.
And we have 32 districts that are in states where there is no presidential campaign going to be run, no big Senate race and we call these orphan districts."
He went on, "You take 18 of them -- California, Illinois and New York, where you know we’re not likely to do well at the top of the ticket -- and those districts are frankly pretty vulnerable."
Boehner also dismissed top Obama campaign strategist David Axelrod's comment on Sunday that House Republicans are under a "reign of terror" brought about by the far right of their party.
"That that is just outrageous talk," Boehner said.
(FN) "They’re trying to make this election, as I said earlier, about anything other than the president’s failed economic policies.
And so they’re going to look for every boogeyman known to man," he said.
"Listen, if Republicans were walking in lockstep, my job would be a whole lot easier," he added.
--- end HPO (w error) ----