--- start FOX----
A male suspect was arrested in Florida on Friday morning in connection with the rash of suspicious packages sent to prominent Democrats nationwide, law enforcement sources confirmed to Fox News.
Multiple sources identified the suspect to Fox News as Cesar Sayoc of Aventura, Florida.
A separate law enforcement source told Fox News that the suspect is a white male in his 50s, who used to live in New York and had prior arrests for terroristic threats. 
Several of the packages went through a U.S. postal facility in Opa-locka, which is less than 10 miles from Aventura.
The Department of Justice will hold a press conference at 2:30 p.m. ET.
Federal authorities had been focusing on Florida as the location where the majority of packages originated.
“Some of the packages went through the mail,” Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen earlier told Fox News. 
“They originated, some of them, from Florida. 
I am confident that this person or people will be brought to justice.”
The Miami-Dade County Police Department confirmed Thursday it was helping federal agents who were at the facility in Opa-locka as part of the ongoing investigation.
The USPS operates an innovative imaging system that photographs each piece of mail processed throughout the country. 
Investigators were likely relying on that system to pinpoint where some of the packages were mailed.
The FBI said the packages each consisted of a manila envelope with a bubble-wrap interior containing potentially destructive devices. 
The packages were addressed with a computer-printed address label and six stamps.
A government source told Fox News the FBI was analyzing the stamps in Quantico. 
The source also said the investigation had progressed “significantly” and that the FBI was reaching out to retailers to zero in on where the elements of the bombs were made and where they were sold.
The envelopes and packaging materials likely contained a treasure trove of DNA information. 
Tiny bits of genetic material – traces of sweat, skin cells, saliva, hair or fingerprints – are typically used as a roadmap to the suspect’s door, investigators and bomb experts say.
The Washington, D.C., field office and the FBI headquarters had 24 teams in place and on the hunt for the culprit.
Forensic investigators in Quantico, Va., have been sifting through the packages addressed to former President Barack Obama, former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, liberal billionaire George Soros, former Attorney General Eric Holder, former CIA Director John Brennan and California Democratic Rep. Maxine Waters.
The devices are thought to have been fashioned from crude, bomb-making designs widely available on the Internet. 
Authorities haven’t said whether the devices were built to explode and kill or simply sow fear.
Ryan Morris, founder of Tripwire Operation Group, a company that provides explosives training to law enforcement and military officials, called the devices “Mickey Mouse” bombs that were meant to be found. 
He told Fox News he believes the primary motive is fear. 
The packages were sent about two weeks ahead of the midterm elections.
Regardless, investigators were treating the devices as “live” explosives New York City Police Commissioner James O’Neill said.
Larry Johnson, a former head of criminal investigations for the U.S. Secret Service who also served as a special agent in charge of the presidential protective detail, agreed that bomb makers usually leave evidence – and their signature- behind.
“If there is a human involved, there is a high probability you’re going to get somewhere investigatively,” he told The Associated Press. 
“There will be no stone left unturned.”
Johnson believes it’s “highly likely” the person who built the bombs will have been previously flagged by law enforcement. 
The Secret Service maintains a wide database of groups and individuals who have made threats in the past against presidents or other top political leaders and activists via email, letters or on social media.
James Fitzgerald, a retired FBI profiler and forensic linguist who, in 1996, helped catch "Unabomber" Ted Kaczynski -- who killed 3 people and injured 23 in bombings between 1978 and 1995 -- told Fox News on Wednesday that the letter sent to John Brennan, the former director of the CIA and a staunch Trump critic, reminded him of something the Unabomber would send because of the number of stamps used on the package.
“The linguist in me noticed that Debbie Wasserman Schultz, the last name is spelled missing a ‘c’ and John Brennan’s name is spelled missing an ‘n’ and that kind of surprised me and I have a feeling that was done on purpose to make this look like somebody who doesn’t really know who these people are and that it wasn’t an honest mistake. 
If he had this much anger and vitriol against these people, you would think he would know how to spell their names
--- end FOX----

--- start HPO----
Police have arrested a suspect in connection with at least a dozen packages containing likely pipe bombs mailed in the past week to people critical of President Donald Trump.
Cesar Sayoc, 56, of South Florida was taken into custody on Friday, FBI Director Chris Wray confirmed at a press conference.
Sayoc has been charged with five federal crimes ― interstate transportation of an explosive, illegal mailing of explosives, making threats against former presidents and certain other persons, threatening interstate communications, and assaulting current and former federal officers ― the Department of Justice said.
He faces up to 48 years in prison.
In remarks at the White House before a youth leadership summit, Trump congratulated local and national law enforcement agencies for apprehending the suspect.
The president pledged to prosecute those responsible ― “them, him, her, whoever it may be,” he said ― to the fullest extent of the law.
“We must never allow political violence to take root in America,” Trump said.
“The bottom line is that Americans must unify,” he went on.
His comments echoed those he has delivered at rallies and sent over Twitter in the wake of the bomb scares, calling for unity and a calmer discourse but refusing to tone down his own inflammatory rhetoric.
Minutes after addressing the threats to prominent Democrats, Trump claimed Republicans are often attacked for supporting him.
“Come to think of it, does anyone get attacked more than me?” Trump said.
The development came hours after two additional packages were discovered, one addressed to Sen. Cory Booker (D-N.J.), and the other to former Director of National Intelligence James Clapper.
A suspicious package was also found Friday in Burlingame, California, addressed to Democratic donor Tom Steyer, CNN and NBC reported.
A law enforcement source told CNN the package was similar to the other ones sent to politicians and public figures this week.
“We’re thankful that everyone we work with at NextGen America and Need to Impeach is safe,” Steyer said in a statement Friday, referring to his super PAC NextGen and his campaign to impeach Trump.
“We are seeing a systematic attack on our democracy and our rule of law that extends much further than just one isolated terrorist in Florida.
Whether it’s voter suppression, voter intimidation, attacks on our free press, gerrymandering, or attempted violence ― the trust and norms that are the actual basis for our civil society and political system are being eroded.”
Authorities have heightened their search in Florida, as several of the packages may have passed through the state.
The FBI said Friday that the package for Booker was found in a Florida mail facility.
Throughout the week, more than 10 packages containing potential explosive devices have been mailed to lawmakers and other public figures critical of Trump, including former President Barack Obama, former President Bill Clinton, Trump’s 2016 presidential opponent Hillary Clinton, Rep. Maxine Waters (D-Calif.), actor Robert De Niro and former CIA Director John Brennan.
The package addressed Brennan was sent to CNN’s New York City bureau, sparking an evacuation Wednesday.
Brennan is an MSNBC and NBC contributor.
On Friday, postal officials intercepted the package for Clapper, a CNN contributor, before it could reach the CNN offices, where it was addressed, according to the network.
The Sacramento County Sheriff Department also said Friday that a suspicious package found at a Sacramento mail facility and addressed to Sen. Kamala Harris (D-Calif.) contained an explosive device.
FBI officials said they believed the package to be related to the others mailed out this week.
All of the confirmed packages listed the Florida office of Rep. Debbie Wasserman Schultz (D-Fla.), the former chairwoman of the Democratic National Committee, as the return address.
Asked why Sayoc appeared to be targeting Democratic politicians and others critical of Trump, Attorney General Jeff Sessions said he didn’t know but that the suspect “appears to be a partisan”
Wray added: “It’s too early at this stage to discuss motive.”
Investigators identified Sayoc based on a fingerprint found on the package sent to Waters and a DNA sample from a previous arrest in Florida, DOJ officials said Friday.
When law enforcement arrested him on Friday in Plantation, Florida, they also took possession of a van covered in stickers supporting Trump and criticizing Democratic officials.
Sayoc is a registered Republican and a self-described promoter and booking agent.
He has a history of multiple arrests, including for felony grand theft and misdemeanor retail theft.
A spokeswoman for Brevard College in North Carolina confirmed to HuffPost that Sayoc attended the school for three semesters starting in the fall of 1980 and did not graduate.
Authorities were initially vague about the content of the packages, calling them simply “suspected explosive devices.”
Wray elaborated at Friday’s press briefing that each device contained roughly 6 inches of PVC pipe, as well as a small clock and wiring.
“These are not hoax devices,” he said.
Wray noted that the investigation was ongoing and warned there could be other packages not yet intercepted.
--- end HPO----

--- start NYT (w error) ----
Federal authorities made an arrest on Friday in connection with the nationwide bombing campaign against outspoken critics of President Trump, a significant breakthrough in a case that has gripped the country in the days leading up to the midterm elections.
A law enforcement official identified the suspect as Cesar Sayoc Jr., 56, of Aventura, Fla., just north of Miami.
Mr. Sayoc, a registered Republican, has a lengthy criminal history in Florida dating back to 1991 that includes felony theft, drug and fraud charges, as well as being arrested and accused of threatening to use a bomb, public records show.
His criminal record from the Florida Department of Law Enforcement indicates that at the time of his last arrest in 2015, he was 5-foot-11 and 215 pounds. 
He has brown eyes, black hair and a scar on his left arm, the records said, and was born in New York. 
(TN) The records listed Mr. Sayoc’s occupation as “manager.”
According to a 2012 bankruptcy petition filed in Miami, Mr. Sayoc resided at the time at his mother’s home. 
“Lives w/mom,” a handwritten note on the petition said. 
“Has no furniture.”
On Friday morning, the authorities surrounded a white van with pro-Trump stickers on it, and television news later showed images of the authorities hauling the van away on a truck underneath a tarp. 
But it remained unclear if the van belonged to Mr. Sayoc.
Some residents of Aventura reported seeing a similar white van covered in pro-Trump stickers often parked in the lot of a local strip mall, the Aventura Waterways shopping center. 
But it was not immediately clear if that van was the same one seized by the police on Friday.
“It struck me because of the crazy conspiratorial stickers covering the windows,” said David Cypkin, a documentary film producer and editor with the Rakontur production company. 
“It was unsettling, and also it seemed to be occupied. 
Sometimes the door would be ajar or a window would be open, which indicated to me that maybe somebody was living in the van.”
Speaking at the White House on Friday, Mr. Trump praised law enforcement officials for quickly arresting a suspect.
“These terrorizing acts are despicable and have no place in our country,” he said.
He added: “We must never allow political violence to take root in America.”
Mr. Sayoc’s arrest came only hours after the mysterious spate of pipe bombs spread further as federal authorities said on Friday morning that they had found two more of the explosive devices: one addressed to Senator Cory Booker and the other to James R. Clapper Jr., the former director of national intelligence.
Although no formal charges have been filed yet in the case, two of the law enforcement officials said there was a high likelihood that Mr. Sayoc would be prosecuted at least in part in Federal District Court in Manhattan. 
The F.B.I.’s New York office has been leading the investigation and five of the bombs sent this week fall under the jurisdiction of the United States attorney’s office in Manhattan.
The package addressed to Mr. Clapper was meant to be delivered to the New York offices of CNN, where he works as an analyst, but was intercepted at a mail facility in Midtown Manhattan, police officials in New York City said. 
The package addressed to Mr. Booker, a New Jersey Democrat, was found in Florida, which two people briefed on the matter have said has become a focus of the intense, nationwide investigation into the bombs.
At a news conference on Friday morning, John Miller, the New York Police Department’s deputy commissioner of intelligence and counterterrorism, said a postal worker at the mail facility on 52nd Street recognized the package addressed to Mr. Clapper as similar to other suspicious packages discovered this week and “froze it in the system.”
The department’s bomb squad responded to the facility and secured the package for delivery to an F.B.I. lab in Quantico, Va., Mr. Miller said.
Speaking on CNN on Friday, Mr. Clapper said he was not surprised that a device had been sent to him. 
He has been a frequent critic of President Trump, a similarity shared with everyone whose names have appeared on the packages discovered so far.
“This is definitely domestic terrorism,” Mr. Clapper said. 
“Anyone who has in any way been a critic, publicly been a critic of President Trump, needs to be on an extra alert.”
Mr. Clapper also said that on Wednesday night he had taken precautions after the first packages were discovered. 
While he and his wife were away from their home this week, he added, he told his neighbor not to collect their mail.
All together, 12 crude explosive devices have been found since Monday, sent through the mail to a host of Democrats and other prominent figures who have been among Mr. Trump’s most vocal detractors. 
The packages — virtually identical in plain manila envelopes — have been addressed to former President Barack Obama; former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.; former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton; Representative Maxine Waters of California; former Attorney General Eric Holder; John O. Brennan, a former C.I.A. director, the actor Robert De Niro; and George Soros, the billionaire Democratic donor.
All of the envelopes had return address labels bearing the misspelled name of Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz, a Democrat whose district is in southern Florida. 
None of the devices inside have exploded on their own so far, and investigators are still seeking to determine whether they were even capable of detonating. 
But the authorities in New York and elsewhere have warned that the devices should be considered dangerous.
The first package was discovered on Monday afternoon at the suburban New York home of Mr. Soros. 
While investigators initially thought that some devices were hand delivered, they now believe it is likely all of them were sent in the mail. 
Using information collected by the United States Postal Service, investigators have focused their attention on certain Florida postal centers, including one in Opa-locka near Miami.
--- end NYT (w error) ----