--- start FOX----
President Trump on Monday called the criminal case against former national security adviser Michael Flynn “very unfair,” claiming he and Hillary Clinton both “lied” to the FBI but only Flynn faced consequences.
The president’s comments, made to reporters as he left Washington for a policy announcement in Utah, saw Trump wading deeper into the Flynn investigation even after a weekend tweet landed the White House in hot water.
On Monday, Trump said he feels “badly” for Flynn, who pleaded guilty on Friday to giving false statements to the FBI about his Russia contacts.
“Hillary Clinton lied many times to the FBI, nothing happened to her. Flynn lied and they destroyed his life,” Trump said. 
The president, without offering specifics, said his 2016 Democratic rival “lied many times” during her FBI interview in early July.
“Nothing happened to her. Flynn lied and it’s like they ruined his life. Very unfair,” Trump said, echoing a weekend tweet in which he asked whether a “double standard” was at play.
Clinton was interviewed by FBI agents as part of the investigation into her exclusive use of a private email system while secretary of state. 
After that interview, then-FBI Director James Comey called her actions extremely careless without recommending criminal charges.
Trump also noted over the weekend that Clinton was not recorded or under oath during that interview.
On Sunday, Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., suggested Trump might want to think twice before tweeting and commenting on the Russia case. 
“You tweet and comment regarding ongoing criminal investigations at your own peril,” he said on CBS’ “Face the Nation.”
This was after Trump’s account tweeted Saturday: “I had to fire General Flynn because he lied to the Vice President and the FBI. 
He has pled guilty to those lies. 
It is a shame because his actions during the transition were lawful. 
There was nothing to hide!”
That tweet immediately caused problems for the White House, as some legal experts said it potentially exposed the president to obstruction of justice allegations – since, according to the tweet, he would have known Flynn lied to agents when he allegedly asked Comey to lay off the Flynn investigation and later fired Comey. 
Trump said earlier this year that he fired Flynn only for lying to Vice President Pence about the issue.
Trump’s personal lawyer John Dowd later said he was the one who wrote that tweet, saying he “did not mean to break news.”
Dowd attempted to explain Sunday that the tweet was referring to then-acting Attorney General Sally Yates telling White House Counsel Don McGahn in January that Flynn had “given the agents the same story he gave the vice president.”
He also said the agents seemed to think Flynn was confused. 
“All the president knew was that the department was not accusing him of lying,” Dowd said.
Trump over the weekend denied that he asked Comey to stop investigating Flynn.
Sen. Dianne Feinstein, D-Calif., the top Democrat on the Senate Judiciary Committee, said on NBC’s “Meet the Press” on Sunday that the panel has begun to see "the putting together of a case of obstruction of justice" against Trump.
Flynn is now cooperating with Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s investigators in the Russia meddling case, though it’s unclear what exactly he might reveal about Trump and his associates.

--- end FOX----

--- start HPO----
WASHINGTON ― President Donald Trump on Monday defended his former national security adviser, Michael Flynn, by invoking his 2016 election opponent, Hillary Clinton.
“I feel very badly for Gen. Flynn,” Trump told reporters before leaving for a trip to Utah, saying that Flynn’s life has been “ruined.”
Trump then pivoted to Clinton, apparently referring to the FBI’s investigation into her use of a private email server.
“Hillary Clinton lied many times to the FBI, and nothing happened to her.
Flynn lied, and it destroyed his life, and I think it’s a shame,” Trump said, before again claiming that Clinton “lied many times, [and] nothing happened to her.
Flynn lied, and it’s like, it ruined his life.
It’s very unfair.”
The president this morning says 'I feel badly for General Flynn.'
#MorningJoe pic.twitter.com/tBp5aXWhBj — Morning Joe (@Morning_Joe) December 4, 2017
Flynn pleaded guilty on Friday for lying to the FBI in special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into possible collusion between Trump’s campaign and Russia, becoming the first former administration official to face charges in the probe.
Trump and the White House have long claimed that the investigations into the campaign have nothing to do with Trump himself.
Flynn’s indictment, however, makes it increasingly difficult for the president to distance himself.
Flynn stepped down in February, saying that he had misled the transition team, including then Vice President-elect Mike Pence, about the extent of his contacts with Russian officials, which included discussing sanctions and the creation of a backchannel with the Kremlin.
Trump and his lawyer, John Dowd, now claim that the president already knew about Flynn lying to the FBI, renewing questions of whether Trump obstructed justice in the investigation.
In May, Trump told NBC’s Lester Holt that he fired then-FBI Director James Comey with “this Russia thing” in mind.
The following month, Comey testified before the Senate that Trump had requested that Comey put an end to the agency’s investigation into Flynn.
In an interview with Axios published Monday, Dowd brought out a new defense: Trump isn’t guilty of obstructing justice because he is the president.
The “President cannot obstruct justice because he is the chief law enforcement officer under [the Constitution’s Article II] and has every right to express his view of any case,” Dowd said.
--- end HPO----

--- start NYT (w error) ----
WASHINGTON — President Trump on Monday said the F.B.I. ruined the life of his former national security adviser and said his Democratic opponent for president, Hillary Clinton, suffered no consequences after she lied “many times” to the F.B.I.
Michael T. Flynn, Mr. Trump’s first national security adviser, pleaded guilty on Friday to lying to the F.B.I. when he was questioned early this year about his conversations with the Russian ambassador.
He was the fourth person charged in the investigation of Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel appointed to lead an inquiry into Russia’s influence on the 2016 election and possible ties to Trump associates.
As he left for Utah on Monday, the president said he felt “very badly” for Mr. Flynn, whom he fired in February for lying to the vice president about the content of these conversations.
Mr. Trump’s comments Monday on Mr. Flynn come at a time when the special counsel investigation is focusing intensely on the president’s inner circle.
Mr. Trump once encouraged Mr. Flynn to seek an immunity deal.
Presidents typically do not weigh in on federal investigations to avoid appearing to influence the outcome.
“I feel badly for General Flynn,” Mr. Trump said on Monday. “I feel very badly.
He’s led a very strong life and I feel very badly.
Hillary Clinton lied many times to the F.B.I. Nothing happened to her.
Flynn lied and they destroyed his life.”
Mr. Trump did not cite specifically what Mrs. Clinton said that he considered a lie.
Mrs. Clinton gave a voluntary interview to the bureau in July 2016 during its investigation into whether she or her aides broke the law by corresponding through a private email server set up for her use as secretary of state.
(FN) A few days later, the F.B.I. director at the time, James B. Comey, recommended no charges be filed against her in the matter.

--- end NYT (w error) ----