--- start HPO----
President Donald Trump used Twitter to tear into social media companies Saturday morning, claiming they were “totally discriminating against Republican/Conservative voices.”
But he does have a solution. Sort of.
And it involves both sides.
Trump tweeted that “too many voices are being destroyed, some good and some bad, and that cannot be allowed to happen.” So, he added: “Let everybody participate, good & bad, and we will all just have to figure it out!”
Trump accused social media giants of “closing down the opinions of many people on the RIGHT, while at the same time doing nothing to others.”
“Censorship is a very dangerous thing & impossible to police,” he added, before embarking on a now familiar rant about “fake news” CNN and MSNBC — which he admitted to sometimes watching, but “just with a grain of salt.”
Trump did not reference any person in particular in his tirade against the tech companies, although a host of them have in recent weeks banned conspiracy theorist Alex Jones and his website Infowars from their platforms.
--- end HPO----

--- start NYT----
BERKELEY HEIGHTS, N.J. — President Trump said on Saturday that conservative voices were being unfairly censored on social media, hinting that he might intervene if his allies’ accounts continued to be shut down.
“Social Media is totally discriminating against Republican/Conservative voices,” Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter, saying that “censorship is a very dangerous thing.”
“Speaking loudly and clearly for the Trump Administration, we won’t let that happen,” he added.
Social media companies, facing pressure from lawmakers and users over their role in the rise of misinformation and partisan division, have promised to step up their enforcement practices. 
They have banned a number of pages and accounts in recent weeks for being involved in activity intended to disrupt the midterm elections, and almost all of the major platforms removed content from Alex Jones, the far-right conspiracy theorist, this month over what they called hateful and violent speech.
After the content from Mr. Jones and his website, Infowars, was removed, he issued a plea to Mr. Trump to block the companies’ actions and “come out before the midterms and make the censorship the big issue.”
In the same video appeal, Mr. Jones urged Mr. Trump to “point out that the communist Chinese have penetrated and infiltrated” the American election system and are “way, way worse than the Russians.”
Minutes after his tweets on Saturday morning about social media, the president — who has long had an affinity for conspiracy theories — appeared to do just that.
“All of the fools that are so focused on looking only at Russia should start also looking in another direction, China,” Mr. Trump wrote. 
“But in the end, if we are smart, tough and well prepared, we will get along with everyone!
Mr. Trump’s tweets on Saturday, sent from his golf club in Bedminster, N.J., were not the first time he has accused social media companies of discriminating against Republicans. 
Last month, he joined with prominent conservatives who have seized on the heightened enforcement of guidelines and the concept of shadow banning on Twitter — making social media posts invisible to everyone except the posters themselves — as proof of biased attacks on their views.
Twitter has said that it does not shadow ban users, although it has struggled to define what its policies against hate speech are. 
In the case of Mr. Jones, it did not initially join the other major platforms in removing his content, and has since taken relatively minor steps against him.
Mr. Jones has had his posts and videos on his personal account and on Infowars severely restricted or removed by Apple, Facebook, Google and Spotify. 
Twitter, which initially said Mr. Jones and Infowars had not violated its policies, later suspended the two accounts for a week for violating rules against inciting violence.
In his tweets on Saturday, Mr. Trump urged social media companies to “let everybody participate, good & bad,” saying that while networks like CNN and MSNBC might be “fake news,” he does not “ask that their sick behavior be removed.”
Yet Mr. Trump has waged relentless attacks on news coverage that he does not like, and has long expressed hostility toward traditional press freedoms. 
He has vowed to “open up” the nation’s libel laws, even though those statutes are in fact state, not federal, laws.

--- end NYT----

--- start FOX (w error) ----
President Trump on Saturday took aim at social media tech giants for “discriminating” against Republicans and conservatives -- saying that “too many voices are being destroyed” and promising that his administration would not allow it to happen.
“Who is making the choices, because I can already tell you that too many mistakes are being made. 
Let everybody participate, good & bad, and we will all just have to figure it out!” he said at the end of a lengthy post on Twitter.
Both Facebook and Twitter have been under fire for allegedly censoring accounts, while ignoring rules violations by liberal and left-wing users. 
Trump in the past has referred to alleged “shadow banning” by Twitter as “discriminatory and illegal.”
(TN) Trump uses Twitter on a daily basis, and his campaign was credited for its use of Facebook as one of the ways it secured its victory in November 2016.
While conservatives have complained for years about what they say is discrimination by the tech giants, the controversy escalated last month when Vice News reported the issue, saying that accounts from top Republicans including GOP Chairwoman Ronna McDaniel were being given limited visibility on Twitter. 
Twitter at the time said it was an algorithmic glitch that has since been fixed.
"We do not shadow ban. 
You are always able to see the tweets from accounts you follow (although you may have to do more work to find them, like go directly to their profile). 
And we certainly don’t shadow ban based on political viewpoints or ideology," the tech giant said in a statement.
"We do rank tweets and search results. 
We do this because Twitter is most useful when it’s immediately relevant. 
These ranking models take many signals into consideration to best organize tweets for timely relevance," the statement said. 
"We must also address bad-faith actors who intend to manipulate or detract from healthy conversation."
A Facebook executive apologized last month for mistreating Diamond and Silk -- two pro-Trump personalities who have long claimed they are being censored by the platform, but the company has also denied being biased against conservatives.
“We badly mishandled our communications with them,” Monika Bickert, head of Global Policy Management at Facebook, said at a House Judiciary Committee hearing.
But that has done little to calm the controversy, and Trump on Saturday accused social media sites of “closing down the opinions of many people on the right, while at the same time doing nothing to others.”
"Too many voices are being destroyed, some good & some bad, and that cannot be allowed to happen," he tweeted.
He went on to call censorship “a dangerous thing” and then took a swipe at CNN and MSNBC, saying that while they are “fake,” he does not demand that offending content be taken off air.
“If you are weeding out Fake News, there is nothing so Fake as CNN & MSNBC, & yet I do not ask that their sick behavior be removed,” he tweeted. 
“I get used to it and watch with a grain of salt, or don’t watch at all..”

--- end FOX (w error) ----