--- start FOX----
Three days after an Internet video surfaced showing North Carolina Rep. Bob Etheridge in a physical confrontation with a young man, the lawmaker said he is "profoundly" sorry for the tussle on a Washington street.
Etheridge, a Democrat, is seen in an amateur video grabbing the wrist and neck of an unidentified young man after the man approached the congressman and asked if he supported the "Obama agenda."
"No matter how partisan and no matter how difficult things get sometimes, that's no excuse for my response," he added, shortly after releasing a written statement in which he said he "profoundly" regrets the incident.
The video, posted to YouTube last Friday, shows the man, who appears to be in his early 20s and who identifies himself as a student, approaching Etheridge on the sidewalk.
Etheridge is then seen trying to snatch a cell phone camera out of the student's hands. He then grabs the man's wrist and refuses to let go.
"Who are you!" the seven-term congressman demands.
"Tell me who you are ... I have a right to know who you are."
Another man, not seen on camera, then tells Etheridge, "We're just here for a project."
When the man asks Etheridge to "please let go of me," the congressman then grabs him by the neck.
Etheridge told reporters that he hasn't apologized to the young men involved because "I dont know who they are."
"I would if I knew who they were," he said.
"I've been spat at, pushed and threatened before but that's no excuse," he added, saying that the incident occurred after a "long day."
"His conduct is unbecoming of a member of Congress.
It's bad enough that he's joined Obama's assault on North Carolina jobs, but his physical assault on a college student goes beyond the pale."
Mike Flynn, a conservative blogger for biggovernment.com, wrote that the confrontation occurred last week outside a fundraiser headlined by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi.
The video, which was posted on YouTube by "DCCameraGuy," does not reveal the identity of the men making the tape.
Etheridge, who has represented North Carolina's 2nd Congressional District since 1997, is running for re-election against Republican Renee Ellmers, a registered nurse, in November.
Political observers have predicted that the 68-year-old congressman will likely hold on to his seat.
Etheridge, a member of the House Ways and Means and Budget committees, voted in favor of President Obama's health care overhaul legislation as well as the Democratic climate change bill known by opponents as cap-and-trade.

--- end FOX----

--- start NYT----
Representative Bob Etheridge, Democrat of North Carolina, issued an apology on Monday for grabbing a young man by the hand, arm and neck – as a video camera rolled – as the man tried to ask him whether he supports President Obama’s agenda.
“I deeply and profoundly regret my reaction and I apologize to all involved,” Mr. Etheridge said in a statement. 
“Throughout my many years of service to the people of North Carolina, I have always tried to treat people from all viewpoints with respect. 
No matter how intrusive and partisan our politics can become, this does not justify a poor response.”
He added, “I have and I will always work to promote a civil public discourse.”
A young man, dressed in a jacket and tie, approached the congressman on a sidewalk, saying: “Hi, Congressman. How are you? Do you fully support the Obama agenda?”
Mr. Etheridge, a seven-term House member, can be seen on the video repeatedly asking the young man to identify himself. 
After a few seconds, the congressman grabs the camera and the young man.
“Tell me who you are,” Mr. Etheridge said. “Tell me who you are.”
The young man is not identified in the video, which was made last week. 
A second person accompanying him pulled out another camera to record the congressman’s actions. 
The video received widespread attention on Monday after it was posted on the Web site of Andrew Breitbart, a conservative Web publisher and former editor of The Drudge Report. 
It was circulated by the National Republican Congressional Committee.
“Bob Etheridge has lost it,” said Jon Thompson, a Republican spokesman. 
“His conduct is unbecoming of a member of Congress.”
Mr. Etheridge, who represents a conservative district south of Raleigh, faces a re-election challenge, but his race is not among the top Republican targets in the country. 
He won two years ago by 36 percentage points, and Mr. Obama carried his district by 6 percent.
Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. resumed the White House campaign for gun control on Tuesday by reporting on executive action taken unilaterally by the administration and pressing Congress to take up legislation again.
--- end NYT----

--- start HPO (w error) ----
Rep. Bob Etheridge (D-N.C.) appeared unreceptive to the question of an anonymous reporter this weekend, when he grabbed the self-identified “student” after he asked the congressman if he “fully supported the Obama agenda.”
In the video, the North Carolina lawmaker is seen approaching the camera, while the reporter asks, “Hi, Congressman. How are you?
Do you fully support the Obama agenda?”
Etheridge appears visibly irritated and immediately asks, “who are you?” before knocking the interviewer’s camera to the ground.
(TN) In the next shot, Etheridge grabs the reporter’s wrist and continually asks him to identify himself.
The cameraman replies, “we’re just here for a project...we’re just students.”
Over at Big Government, a post accompanying the video provides the following commentary on the encounter:
“Expect more of this.
A hard, progressive left captured the Democrat majority in Congress and forced them to enact a fantasy grab-bag of legislation that is increasingly unpopular with the American public.
We’re on the cusp of a deeper recession, millions of unemployed Americans have no prospect for work, taxes are about to spike higher and we’ve maxed out the national credit card.
The Democrats were given a chance to run government and they’ve only succeeded in running it into the ground.
[...]
Let’s recap what we saw on this video.
A sitting Congressman-a presumed living extension of James Madison and other founding fathers-was asked on a public street whether he supported the President’s agenda.
His response was to hit away a video camera and assault a student.
The age of Pericles this ain’t.
It is going to be a long, hot summer.
But, you’ve been given a target.
Act accordingly.”
Mediaite, in a response to the Big Government post, writes about the problems with anonymous inflammatory assault interviews, and argues that it might be this new brand of “journalism” that has Etheridge on edge:
“Now, Etheridge’s actions are only partially defensible.
He need not have gotten physical with the students who asked him the provocative question regarding his support of the “Obama Agenda” (honestly, that sort of opening question is straight from the Jason Mattera school of inflammatory interview techniques.)
But little is known about these “students.”
The YouTube video is published under an account titled TonyManization, and even more damning is that the faces of the individuals asking the Congressman questions are blurred out.
Hmmm...nothing like the courage of the anonymous protester.
Which brings us back to Etheridge’s response.
Yeah - he comes off as a jerk, but...when in Rome.
It will be interesting to follow how this story plays out in the news media.
Will it be a big story? Probably not, but apparently being prepared for ambush interviews from eager college kids is the next phase of media training for many on Capitol Hill.”
UPDATE:
DNC spokesman Brad Woodhouse addressed the video in a statement Monday:
“Motives matter, and I think you can see who was behind this,” Woodhouse said.
“This was a Republican party tracking operation.
If it wasn’t a party tracker or intern, why is the face blurred and why is the source hidden?
You know if it had been a right wing blog, they’d identify themselves and they’d be booking this person on TV all day.
Republicans know if they admit their involvement in this game of gotcha it will undermine their credibility.
One minute this guy is interviewing a member of Congress on camera and the next a video is released with his face blurred out?
If that doesn’t tell you this is a Republican Party hatchet job nothing will.”
UPDATE:
Rep. Bob Etheridge (D-N.C.) has apologized for his combative behavior over the weekend in a statement released by his office:
“I deeply and profoundly regret my reaction and I apologize to all involved,” Etheridge said.
“Throughout my many years of service to the people of North Carolina, I have always tried to treat people from all viewpoints with respect.
No matter how intrusive and partisan our politics can become, this does not justify a poor response.
I have and I will always work to promote a civil public discourse.”
--- end HPO (w error) ----