--- start FOX----
Rep. Michele Bachmann has declined to get into the scrum with Newsweek over its cover story of the presidential candidate called "The Queen of Rage," accompanied by an unflattering photo of the Minnesota Republican, but others are calling the magazine out of bounds in its depiction.
The National Organization for Women President Terry O'Neill said that the cover of the magazine's latest edition is "sexist" and referred to a simple test by the group's founder Gloria Steinem to explain how they determined that conclusion -- would the magazine do the same to a man.
"Who has ever called a man 'The King of Rage?'
Basically what Newsweek magazine -- and this is important, what Newsweek magazine, not a blog, Newsweek magazine -- what they are saying of a woman who is a serious contender for president of the United States of America…
They are basically casting her as a nut job," O'Neill said to The Daily Caller and NOW confirmed to FoxNews.com on Tuesday.
"The 'Queen of Rage' is something you apply to wrestlers or somebody who is crazy.
They didn’t even do this to Howard Dean when he had his famous scream," she said.
Newsweek has defended the photo -- an extreme close-up of the crystal blue-eyed Bachmann looking over the camera with a dark blue background -- saying that several of the images taken of her appeared the same way.
The magazine posted other photos of her on its website, and many of them are flattering.
Bachmann was asked about the cover during an appearance in Iowa on Monday, where she is campaigning ahead of Thursday's Fox News/Washington Examiner debate and Saturday's Ames Straw Poll.
She told voters she had not seen the cover.
"Ah-hah," she said when told the story headline.
"Well, we'll have to take a look at that, won't we?"
O'Neill said that the main reason her group, which disagrees with Bachmann on almost every issue, would stand up for and defend Bachmann against "these kind of misogynistic attacks is we want women to run for office."
"Of course my job is to defeat Michele Bachmann and I intend to do so.
But good women will not run for office if Newsweek magazine can do this to such a prominent politician and get away with it," O'Neill said.
Brent Bozell, head of the Media Research Center and ForAmerica, said he's not surprised by the magazine cover.
"Both Time and Newsweek have been doing this to conservatives for years.
It is sheer journalistic dishonesty," Bozell told FoxNews.com.
"But it is precisely because of this journalistic dishonesty that conservatives should steer away from these venues -- or at least demand some form of editorial oversight given that these magazines simply cannot be trusted."
--- end FOX----

--- start NYT----
Splashed across the cover of this week’s Newsweek magazine is a picture of the Republican presidential candidate and Tea Party favorite Representative Michele Bachmann.
Her eyes are open wide — very, very wide — focused intensely somewhere off in the distance, just a smidge too high above the camera.
At the bottom of the page, floating across her torso in bold white letters, are the words “The Queen of Rage.”
Many in the conservative blogosphere are not pleased.
“Exactly what were the editors thinking putting this kind of a picture of a sitting congresswoman and presidential candidate on their cover?” wrote Noel Sheppard on the conservative Web site News Busters, under the headline “Newsweek Puts Picture of Michele Bachmann on Cover That Makes Her Look Crazy.”
A blogger on the Web site Freedom’s Lighthouse said, “Can anyone really say with a straight face that the Mainstream Media is not totally biased against conservatives?”
But even some unlikely allies have emerged to decry the cover as disrespectful.
“It’s sexist,” said Terry O’Neill, the president of the National Organization for Women, to the news Web site the Daily Caller, which is run by the conservative commentator Tucker Carlson.
“Gloria Steinem has a very simple test,” Ms. O’Neill continued.
“If this were done to a man or would it ever be done to a man – has it ever been done to a man?
Surely this has never been done to a man.”
Monday night, Newsweek responded to the controversy by posting an “outtakes” gallery on its Daily Beast Web site, showcasing other photos taken for the article.
The pictures show Ms. Bachmann shaking hands with voters, standing by herself in the corner of a room and signing autographs, all with the same wide-eyed intensity as in the cover shot.
The cover goes with an article by Lois Romano about Ms. Bachmann’s place in the Tea Party movement and on the national stage.
The article itself seems to have spawned little outrage.
This is not the first time Newsweek has caused a stir with its cover choices.
In 2009, the editors selected a photo of Sarah Palin in running shorts, which the former governor — and many others — called “sexist.”
Just this past June, the news magazine ran a computer generated image of Catherine, the new Duchess of Cambridge, walking alongside Princess Diana, who has been dead for nearly 14 years.
The Atlantic Wire ran a story about that cover called, simply, “How Creepy Is Princess Diana’s Ghost on the Cover of Newsweek?”
--- end NYT----

--- start HPO (w error) ----
Newsweek's latest issue features a Michele Bachmann cover that's sure to stir up controversy.
The cover shows Bachmann standing against a stark blue background, looking directly into the camera with a wide-eyed expression.
The headline advertising the magazine's story reads, "THE QUEEN OF RAGE."
"Rage" is a word that doesn't appear in Newsweek's actual profile of Bachmann, though author Lois Romano does criticize what she calls the "radical" nature of the Tea Party that Bachmann champions.
(TP) Conservative websites are already crying foul over the cover, with some saying it makes Bachmann look "crazy" and one blogger asking, "Can anyone really say with a straight face that the mainstream media is not totally biased against conservatives?"
It's not the first time Newsweek has faced conservative backlash for a cover.
In June, the magazine portrayed Mitt Romney as one of the stars of the Broadway show "The Book of Mormon."
And, of course, it drew widespread criticism for its infamous Sarah Palin cover in 2009.
See the Bachmann cover below, and tell us whether you think it crosses a line.
--- end HPO (w error) ----