--- start FOX----
The communications director for a Republican member of Congress had to apologize Saturday for a Facebook post critical of the first daughters during President Barack Obama's Thanksgiving address earlier this week.
Elizabeth Lauten wrote in a now-deleted Facebook post Friday that Malia and Sasha Obama, aged 16 and 13 respectively, should "try showing a little class" and described their outfits as more appropriate for "a spot at the bar."
"Rise to the occasion.
Dress like you deserve respect ... And certainly don’t make faces during televised, public events." added Lauten, who works for Rep. Stephen Fincher, R-Tenn.
The communications pro also took a shot at President Obama and the first lady, writing "your mother and father don’t respect their positions very much, or the nation for that matter, so I’m guessing you’re coming up a little short in the 'good role model' department.”
The girls accompanied their daughter to Wednesday's ceremony, in which he pardoned two turkeys named Mac and Cheese.
The tradition of Thanksgiving turkeys being presented to the president dates back to 1947, with the turkey pardon being permanently instituted in 1989.
Lauten later apologized for her original post, writing "I quickly judged the two young ladies in a way that I would never have wanted to be judged myself as a teenager.
After many hours of prayer, talking to my parents, and re-reading my words online I can see more clearly just how hurtful my words were. ...
I pledge to learn and grow (and I assure you I have) from this experience."
The Washington Post reported that Lauten had confirmed that she had made both Facebook postings attributed to her.
Neither the White House nor Fincher made any public comment about the issue Saturday.
--- end FOX----

--- start NYT----
WASHINGTON — A young Republican congressional aide resigned Monday after her Facebook post berating President Obama’s daughters for their attitude and outfits during the annual White House turkey pardon became a sensation on the Internet.
On Friday, the aide, Elizabeth Lauten, 31, who has more than 14,000 followers on Twitter as @DCGopGirl and at the time was a spokeswoman for a little-known congressman from Tennessee, wrote an open letter to Sasha and Malia Obama on her Facebook page, saying they should “try showing a little class” and “dress like you deserve respect, not a spot at a bar.”
By Monday, Ms. Lauten had resigned as communications director to Representative Stephen Fincher, a farmer and gospel singer perhaps best known for his whimsically named hometown, Frog Jump.
Ms. Lauten, now a footnote in Mr. Fincher’s career, is the latest cautionary tale about the dangers of social media sniping directed at the country’s most famous offspring.
It started Wednesday with the most innocuous of events: the annual naming of the National Thanksgiving Turkey, when Mr. Obama officially liberated Cheese, a large white bird with impressive plumage, from the Thursday dinner table.
Per tradition, the first daughters were in attendance, this time wearing mostly cheerless expressions and short outfits.
Malia, 16, was dressed in a plaid miniskirt, sweater, dark tights and black hiking-style boots.
Sasha, 13, wore a maroon dress, a cardigan sweater, a pair of white midcalf-high socks and black ankle boots.
At times, the girls gazed glumly at the floor and threw an occasional eye roll at their father as he compared pardoning Cheese to granting amnesty to unauthorized immigrants.
“You want to pet him?” Mr. Obama asked his daughters.
“Nah,” Malia said quickly.
Their teenage disdain drew its fair share of media attention, including a BuzzFeed article titled “The Obama Girls Could Not Be More Bored by Their Dad’s Jokes.”
Enter Ms. Lauten — a former Republican National Committee new media aide who describes herself on Twitter as loving God, cats, the Daughters of the American Revolution “& all things pink, green and pearls!” — whose commentary had a sharper edge.
“I get you’re both in those awful teen years, but you’re a part of the First Family, try showing a little class,” she wrote above a picture of the unenthused Obama daughters.
“At least respect the part you play.”
She went on to say that Malia and Sasha were “coming up a little short in the ‘good role model’ department” because their parents “don’t respect their positions very much, or the nation for that matter.”
Ms. Lauten wrote what she thought the daughters should have done: “Rise to the occasion.
Act like being in the White House matters to you.
Dress like you deserve respect, not a spot at a bar.”
Her views were widely circulated and eventually posted on Twitter by a reporter for The Root, a news, opinion and culture site aimed at African-American audiences.
A flood of angry responses quickly followed.
Ms. Lauten, who did not respond to repeated requests for further comment, later posted an apology for her “hurtful” words, saying she had “judged the two young ladies in a way that I would never have wanted to be judged myself as a teenager.”
Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary, told reporters on Monday that he was “taken aback that there was some political operative on Capitol Hill who did use the occasion of a Thanksgiving-themed event to criticize members of the first family.”
Patti Davis, the daughter of Ronald Reagan, could relate.
In a letter to Sasha and Malia posted on her website, Ms. Davis recalled being criticized by a reporter decades ago for the outfit she wore to a cocktail reception her parents held for Queen Elizabeth II when Mr. Reagan was president.
“As First Daughters, you can’t win,” Ms. Davis wrote.
“And while there isn’t anything normal about the life you are living right now, you still can be.”
--- end NYT----

--- start HPO (w error) ----

(TN) A Republican staffer on Friday apologized for a Facebook post that criticized Malia and Sasha Obama's appearance at the annual White House turkey pardon ceremony, one of America's silliest holiday traditions.
Elizabeth Lauten, the communications director for Rep. Stephen Fincher (R-Tenn.), wrote that the two teenagers should "try showing a little class," "dress like you deserve respect, not a spot at a bar," and, most of all, "don't make faces" at Very Serious public events.
Read the full rant via Gawker:
Dear Sasha and Malia, I get you’re both in those awful teen years, but you’re a part of the First Family, try showing a little class.
At least respect the part you play.
Then again your mother and father don’t respect their positions very much, or the nation for that matter, so I’m guessing you’re coming up a little short in the ‘good role model’ department.
Nevertheless, stretch yourself. Rise to the occasion.
Act like being in the White House matters to you.
Dress like you deserve respect, not a spot at a bar.
And certainly don’t make faces during televised public events.
The First Daughters join President Obama at the ceremony every year, where they can hardly contain their disdain for the lame dad jokes that predictably follow.
Before approaching Mac and Cheese, the two turkeys, the president remarked that it was "puzzling that I do this every year."
Malia even declined her father's offer to pet one of the pardoned turkeys with a nonchalant, "Nah."
Lauten later apologized for rushing to judgment on Facebook.
"I reacted to an article and quickly judged the two young ladies in a way that I would never have wanted to be judged myself as a teenager," she said.
"After many hours of prayer, talking to my parents and re-reading my words online, I can see more clearly how hurtful my words were.
Please know that these judgmental feelings truly have no place in my heart.
Furthermore, I'd like to apologize to all of those who I have hurt and offended with my words, and pledge to learn and grow (and I assure you I have) from this experience."
--- end HPO (w error) ----