--- start HPO----
A more congenial Rick Santorum doubled down on several controversial, and religiously laden, remarks in an interview Sunday morning on CBS's "Face the Nation," where he defended his recent claims that prenatal testing results in abortions, that federally provided education was "anachronistic," and that President Obama's policies are not "based on the Bible."
"I've repeatedly said I don't question the president's faith," Santorum told host Bob Schieffer, denying what some have said was a signal that Santorum had challenged the legitimacy of Obama's Christianity.
"I've repeatedly said that I believe the president's Christian -- he says he's Christian.
But I am talking about his worldview, the way he addresses problems in this country, and they're different than most people view it in America."
In a speech to Tea Party conservatives on Saturday in Columbus, Ohio, Santorum had dismissed Obama’s politics as being based in “some phony theology.”
"It's not about you. It's not about your quality of life. It's not about your jobs," Santorum said.
"It's about some phony ideal, some phony theology. Oh, not a theology based on the Bible. A different theology."
An incredulous Bob Schieffer began his interview with Santorum Sunday by asking, "What in the world were you talking about?"
"I was talking about the radical environmentalists," Santorum said, suggesting that they believe man should protect the earth, rather than "steward its resources."
"I think that is a phony ideal.
I don't believe that's what we're here to do ... We're not here to serve the earth.
That is not the objective, man is the objective."
Earlier in the day on Saturday, Santorum had also said that health insurance plans shouldn’t be required to cover prenatal testing, because that testing results in more abortions, as well as contending that government-run public education was “anachronistic.”
"Free prenatal testing ends up in more abortions and therefore less care that has to be done, because we cull the ranks of the disabled in our society," Santorum told the Ohio Christian Alliance conference.
Asked by Schieffer about his claims that prenatal testing leads to more abortions, Santorum insisted that this was "a fact."
"We're talking about specifically prenatal testing, and specifically amniocentesis, which is a procedure that actually creates a risk of having a miscarriage when you have it, and is done for the purposes of identifying maladies of a child in the womb.
And in many cases -- and in fact in most cases -- most physicians recommend, if there is a problem, they recommend abortion," Santorum said.
Santorum had said that because of this trend, health insurance providers should not be forced to make the procedures available free of charge.
Santorum also told Schieffer that government-provided education was not working and that the process ought to be customizable, like buying a car.
"I'm saying that local communities and parents should be the ones in control over public education, certainly not the federal government, and I think the state governments have not done a particularly good job in public education, either," Santorum said.
Buying a car, by contrast he said, is "designed to meet the needs of a customer.
Federally or state-run education is not designed to meet the needs of the customer."
Speaking earlier on ABC's "This Week" about Santorum's remarks, Obama campaign aide Robert Gibbs called his rhetoric "well over the line."
"I think it's time in our politics that we get rid of this mindset that if we disagree, we have to disqualify each other," Gibbs said.
"I think if you make comments like that, you make comments that are well over the line," he added.
"I think the GOP race has been, in many cases, a race to the bottom."
--- end HPO----

--- start NYT----
Updated: Rick Santorum on Sunday tried to clarify his comment that President Obama subscribed to a “phony theology,” saying he was referring not to the president’s faith but to his view of man’s relationship to the world.
It was during a campaign stop in Ohio on Saturday that Mr. Santorum described what he called the “phony theology” of Mr. Obama’s agenda.
“It’s about some phony ideal, some phony theology.
Oh, not a theology based on the Bible, a different theology,” he said.
“But no less a theology.”
On Sunday, Robert Gibbs, a political adviser to President Obama, criticized such attacks on “character and faith.”
“I can’t help but think that those remarks are well over the line.
It’s wrong. It’s destructive,” Mr. Gibbs said on the ABC News program “This Week,” adding that it reflected the “nastiness, divisiveness, ugliness” and distortions of a hard-fought Republican nominating process.
Mr. Santorum, at another appearance on Saturday, in Columbus, Ohio, called the idea of schools being run by the federal government or by state governments “anachronistic.”
Mr. Santorum did not say public schools were a bad idea, and he said that there was a role for government help in education.
“Where did they come up that public education and bigger education bureaucracies was the rule in America?” he said.
“Parents educated their children, because it’s their responsibility to educate their children.”
“Yes the government can help,” Mr. Santorum added.
“But the idea that the federal government should be running schools, frankly — much less that the state government should be running schools — is anachronistic.
It goes back to the time of industrialization of America when people came off the farms where they did home-school or have the little neighborhood school, and into these big factories, so we built equal factories called public schools.
And while those factories as we all know in Ohio and Pennsylvania have fundamentally changed, the factory school has not.”
Asked about those remarks on the CBS News program “Face the Nation,” Mr. Santorum, who with his wife has home-schooled their children, remained adamant on Sunday.
While he said he did not oppose government financing of schools, Mr. Santorum said that “public education should be a dynamic process that’s locally run.”
“I think the parent should be in charge,” he added, “working with the local school district to try to design an educational environment for each child that optimizes their potential.”
Mr. Santorum also defended his criticism of a requirement in the president’s health-care policy that insurance companies to cover prenatal testing.
He had said earlier that the policy was included to save money “because free prenatal testing ends up in more abortions and therefore less care that has to be done, because we cull the ranks of the disabled in our society.”
The former Pennsylvania senator has a 3-year-old daughter, Bella, with a serious chromosomal disorder, and he said that doctors who detect such a condition before birth typically recommend abortion.
Asked whether he was suggesting that Mr. Obama lacked sympathy for the disabled, Mr. Santorum did not back down, saying, “I think the president has a very bad record on the issue of abortion and children who are disabled.”
One of Mr. Santorum’s rivals for the Republican nomination, Representative Ron Paul of Texas, scoffed at Mr. Santorum on Sunday for focusing on social issues like abortion and contraception – and for believing that he could defeat Mr. Obama.
“Well, I don’t see how that’s possible,” Mr. Paul said on the CNN program “State of the Union.”
“And this whole idea about talking about the social issues and who is going to pay for birth control pills,” Mr. Paul said.
“I’m worried about undermining our civil liberties, the constant wars going on, the debt of $16 trillion.
And they are worried about birth control pills?”
--- end NYT----

--- start FOX (w error) ----
Rick Santorum said Sunday he wasn't questioning whether President Obama is a Christian when he referred to his "phony theology" over the weekend, but was in fact challenging policies that he says place the stewardship of the Earth above the welfare of people living on it.
"I wasn't suggesting the president's not a Christian.
I accept the fact that the president is a Christian," Santorum said.
"I was talking about the radical environmentalist," he said.
"I was talking about energy, this idea that man is here to serve the Earth as opposed to husband its resources and be good stewards of the Earth.
And I think that is a phony ideal.
"I don't believe that that's what we're here to do.
That man is here to use the resources and use them wisely, to care for the Earth, to be a steward of the Earth, but we're not here to serve the Earth.
The Earth is not the objective. Man is the objective.
And I think a lot of radical environmentalists have it upside down," Santorum said.
But the president's campaign, responding forcefully to the new frontrunner in the GOP race, said the remark is a personal affront.
"I can't help but think that those remarks are well over the line.
It's wrong. It's destructive," said Robert Gibbs, the president's former press secretary who is now working on Obama's reelection effort.
"It's time to get rid of this.
It's time to have a debate on our political positions, but not question each other's character and faith," he said.
Obama campaign deputy press secretary Ben Labolt also issued a statement Saturday shortly after Santorum told voters that Obama's agenda is "not about you.
It's not about your quality of life. It's not about your jobs. It's about some phony ideal.
Some phony theology. Not a theology based on the Bible. A different theology."
The comment was "the latest low in a Republican primary campaign that has been fueled by distortions, ugliness, and searing pessimism and negativity."
It was "a stark contrast with the president who is focused everyday on creating jobs and restoring economic security for the middle class," LaBolt said.
Santorum, who has pulled ahead of Mitt Romney in polling for the 2012 Republican presidential primary nod, said Sunday that when he used the word "theology" he was referring to a "world view that elevates the Earth above man."
That world view, Santorum continued, suggests that man could harm the Earth by using the resources available even while relying on claims that "frankly are just not scientifically proven, for example, the politicization of the whole global warming debate."
"I mean, this is just all an attempt to, you know, to centralize power and to give more power to the government," Santorum said.
(TN) Santorum said he never questioned the president's faith and repeatedly said he believes Obama is a Christian.
"He says he is a Christian.
But I am talking about his world view or his -- the way he approaches problems in this country.
And I think they're different than how most people do in America," he said.
But while Gibbs said it's time to get off the "mindset that if we disagree, we have to disqualify each other" comments like Santorum's show that the GOP primary "has been a race to the bottom.
We have seen nastiness, divisiveness, ugliness, distortions of opponents' records, of the president's record."
Santorum appeared on CBS' "Face the Nation."
Gibbs was on ABC's "This Week."
--- end FOX (w error) ----