--- start HPO----
Kathy Griffin Apologizes For Controversial Images Of Bloodied Trump Head
This feels like an “America’s Next Top Model” challenge gone so horribly wrong.
Kathy Griffin has made a career out of shocking her public by telling stories of Lindsay Lohan’s fire crotch and simulating oral sex with Anderson Cooper on CNN, but she took things to a whole new level with a controversial photo shoot.
Shot by celebrity photographer and director Tyler Shields, the comedian stares the camera down in one photo, as she holds what resembles the bloody head of President Donald Trump.
“Kathy is all about pushing the limits and she went above and beyond on this one.
Now lets just hope she stays out of jail,” a representative for Shields told HuffPost.
In other (and considerably less gory) photos shot by Shields, Griffin poses by the pool in a revealing leather getup as a man holding a camera stands above her.
According to New York Magazine writer Yashar Ali, Griffin claims that the image is an “expression of art” inspired by Trump’s comments about former Fox News correspondent Megyn Kelly having “blood coming out of her eyes” and “out of her — wherever.”
After news of the photo shoot broke, Griffin took to Twitter to explain her motivations behind the image and reiterate that she does not condone violence in any way.
She does, however, condone “mocking the Mocker in Chief.”
UPDATE - May 30, 10 p.m.: Kathy Griffin issued a formal apology for the controversial images on Twitter.
“I went way too far,” she said in a video on the social media site.
UPDATE - May 30, 5:20 p.m.: Hours after Kathy Griffin’s photo shoot with a fake bloody Donald Trump head made the internet rounds, the official Twitter account for the U.S. Secret Service has issued a statement.
A Secret Service representative confirmed to HuffPost that the following tweets were in direct response to the controversial image.
“On it! @SecretService has a robust protective intelligence division that monitors open source reporting & social media to evaluate threats,” the tweets read.
“Threats made against @SecretService protectees receive the highest priority of all of our investigations,” with the hashtag #ProtectionNeverRests.
--- end HPO----

--- start NYT----
Trump Lashes Out at Kathy Griffin and Democrats
WASHINGTON — President Trump assailed Democrats and a television comedian on Wednesday in his latest Twitter blasts since returning from an overseas trip in which he had largely abstained from the sort of combative social media postings that helped propel him to the Oval Office and have gotten him in trouble ever since.
The president castigated Kathy Griffin, the celebrity comic and author, for posing for a video showing her holding what looks like the severed and bloodied head of Mr. Trump.
The video touched off a storm of protests from people on all sides of the political spectrum, which forced Ms. Griffin to apologize, and CNN announced that it would fire her from the annual New Year’s Eve program she has co-hosted.
In a statement later in the day, the first lady, Melania Trump, questioned Ms. Griffin’s sanity.
“As a mother, a wife, and a human being, that photo is very disturbing,” she said.
“When you consider some of the atrocities happening in the world today, a photo opportunity like this is simply wrong and makes you wonder about the mental health of the person who did it.”
The Trumps had the support of the daughter of the woman the president beat in last year’s election, among others.
Ms. Griffin went online on Tuesday night to express regret.
“I sincerely apologize,” she said in a video.
“I’m just now seeing the reaction of these images.
I’m a comic.
I crossed the line. I move the line, I cross it. I went way too far.
The image is too disturbing.
I understand how it offends people.
It wasn’t funny. I get it.”
She said she had asked the photographer to pull the images.
“I beg for your forgiveness,” she continued.
“I went too far.
I made a mistake and I was wrong.” She did not address Mr. Trump specifically in her video.
CNN, which has enlisted Ms. Griffin to host New Year’s Eve programming alongside Anderson Cooper for the last decade, announced on Wednesday that she would no longer appear.
Mr. Cooper distanced himself, as well.
Mr. Trump also lashed out at Democrats in Congress whom he accused of trying to squelch testimony involving the investigation into Russian meddling in last year’s election.
Shortly after a “Fox and Friends” segment reporting that Democrats no longer want to hear testimony from Carter Page, a onetime Trump campaign adviser, Mr. Trump wrote that it was all part of a “witch hunt” against him.
“So now it is reported that the Democrats, who have excoriated Carter Page about Russia, don’t want him to testify,” he wrote.
“He blows away their case against him & now wants to clear his name by showing ‘the false or misleading testimony by James Comey, John Brennan …’ Witch Hunt!”
In a letter to the House Intelligence Committee reported by Fox and other news organizations, Mr. Page wrote: “I have learned from your Committee staff on this Memorial Day holiday that I might not be immediately afforded the opportunity to address the false or misleading testimony by James Comey, John Brennan, et al. as per our previously scheduled appointment for next week.
In the interest of finally providing the American people with some accurate information at long last, I hope that we can proceed with this straight dialogue soon.”
Mr. Page did not list what testimony he considered false by Mr. Comey, who was fired by Mr. Trump as director of the F.B.I., or Mr. Brennan, the former director of the C.I.A., who stepped down when President Barack Obama left office in January.
But Mr. Page urged the committee “to investigate the growing evidence of collusion between Clinton campaign associates, Comey and other former Obama administration officials.”
--- end NYT----

--- start FOX (w error) ----
Kathy Griffin admitted Tuesday she "went too far" on her latest photo shoot with controversial photographer Tyler Shields in which she is holding a bloodied mask of President Trump.
The gory photo first published in TMZ from Griffin's photo session with the famed Shields, known for his shocking pictures.
In a Twitter post late Tuesday, Griffin said the image "is too disturbing," and that "it wasn't funny."
"I understand how it offends people," she said, adding "I've made a lot of mistakes in my career."
(FN) According to the gossip site, Griffin joked with Shields on set they would need to move to Mexico after the photos were released or fear imprisonment.
In her Twitter post on Tuesday, Griffin said she was going to "take down the image."
"I went too far and I was wrong," she said.
People took to Twitter to express their disdain for the photo shoot.
Reps for Griffin did not immediately return Fox News' request for comment.
Chelsea Clinton called it "vile and wrong" in a Twitter post.
Shields told Fox News that Griffin was hoping to create a bold message.
"Kathy and I are friends and we worked together before, so when we started doing this shoot, she said, 'I'd love to do something political.
I'd love to make a statement,'" he explained.
"We kind of figured out what would be the best image to make out of that."
Shields added the image was meant to serve as art and he's aware that it could make some viewers uncomfortable.
"That's what art is meant to do," he said.
"Some people look at it and they love it.
Some people look at it and they hate it...
I understand there are going to be people that hate this.
It's a very touchy subject... but this is not real.
We didn't kill anybody nor do I feel anybody should be killed.
It's no different from a movie.
It just happens to be a still image."
Shields tweeted a link to a YouTube video called "Behind the scenes with Kathy Griffin" but the video has since been removed.
However, he later told Fox News that the video had glitches, which prompted him to take it down and then re-upload it.
This is hardly the first time Shields' photos have caused uproar.
He previously received death threats over a photo he took of "Glee" actress Heather Morris with bruises on her face.
The photo was criticized for making light of domestic abuse.
As for his recent collaboration with Griffin, he doesn't regret it.
"I can't speak for her, [but] I know she loves to stir the pot," he said.
"For me, I love the idea we have freedom of speech.
The fact that I'm allowed to make an image like this says a lot.
To me, that's a powerful thing... nobody's killed me for this image so it's not that bad.
I love Kathy and I hope they let me visit her in Guantanamo."
--- end FOX (w error) ----