--- start FOX----
Former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee announced Tuesday he is running for president, delivering an economy- and security-centered message that he hopes will appeal to everyday Americans and distinguish him from the already-crowded Republican field.
Huckabee, who is embarking on his second presidential run, made the announcement in his hometown of Hope, Ark.
In a 30-minute speech that focused on his humble beginnings, Huckabee vowed to end “stagnant wages,” protect Medicare and defeat radical Islamic terrorism.
“Folks cannot seem to get ahead or even stay even,” he said.
Huckabee, a former Baptist minister, ran for president in 2008, winning eight states including the first-in-the-nation Iowa caucuses before running out of money and exiting the race.
“Folks, it’s a long way from a little brick rented house on Second Street in Hope, Arkansas, to the White House,” he said.
"But here in this small town called Hope, I was raised to believe where a person started didn't mean that is where he had to stop.
I always believed that kid could go from hope to higher ground."
The 59-year-old Huckabee has a strong following among the party’s evangelical Christian base but this time will face stiff competition for that vote from such primary candidates as Dr. Ben Carson and Sen. Ted Cruz, of Texas.
He frequently repeated the phrase, “Hope to higher ground,” which appears to be a slogan of sorts for his 2016 campaign.
He also took a swipe at President Obama for declining to recognize the Islamic State group as radical Islamic terrorists and vowed to stop them.
"I wonder if he can watch a Western from the '50s and be able to figure out who the good guy and the bad guys really are," Huckabee said.
"As president, I promise you, we will no longer try to contain Jihadism. We will conquer it.”
He also vowed to protect Medicare and give states more of a say in government and education.
Huckabee, who left his job as a Fox News host earlier this year in preparation for a potential 2016 run, was Arkansas governor from 1996 to 2007, serving after Bill Clinton, who also is from Hope.
And he was the state’s lieutenant governor from 1993 to 1996.
Even before the speech, Huckabee was trying to position himself as the GOP candidate best equipped to defeat Hillary Clinton, the Democratic frontrunner.
In a recent campaign video, Huckabee argued that in his more than 10 years as governor, he took on Democrats in "Bill Clinton's Arkansas" after then-candidate Bill Clinton won election to the White House in 1992.
"Every day in my life in politics was a fight," Huckabee says in the video, released as a preview of his Tuesday announcement.
"But any drunken redneck can walk into a bar and start a fight.
A leader only starts a fight he's prepared to finish."
The field of confirmed and potential GOP presidential candidates includes more than a dozen people.
A new NBC/ Wall Street Journal poll of GOP primary voters shows 23 percent picked former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush as their first choice.
Bush is followed in the poll by Florida Sen. Marco Rubio with 18 percent, Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker with 14 percent, Cruz and Kentucky Sen. Rand Paul with 11 percent, Carson with 7 percent, Huckabee and New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie at 5 percent, former Texas Gov. Rick Perry at 2 percent and former Hewlett-Packard chief executive Carly Fiorina at 1 percent.
Huckabee is the third Republican this week to announce a 2016 White House bid, following Fiorina and Carson, a retired neurosurgeon They join Cruz, Paul and Rubio.
Campaign aides say Huckabee’s path to winning the party nomination this time will be to appeal to working-class cultural conservatives, pitching their candidate as an economic populist and foreign affairs hawk who holds deeply conservative views on social issues such as abortion and gay marriage.
Huckabee advocates a national consumption tax, which is similar to a sales tax, to replace the existing federal taxes on personal income and payrolls.
He rejects calls for a minimum wage hike, saying his proposals will yield a "maximum wage" for workers.
On immigration, he insists on a secure border and bemoans the presence of millions of people who are living in the country illegally, though he favors a creating a path to citizenship for children of immigrant parents who brought them to the U.S. illegally.
Like other Republican White House hopefuls, Huckabee is sharply critical of Obama's foreign policy.
He has called for "bombing the daylights" out of Islamic State targets in the Middle East, though he says American troops should be deployed to the region only as part of an international coalition that includes nations such as Saudi Arabia and Jordan.
But whatever the issue, Huckabee, also an author, wraps his appeal as a pitch to everyday Americans who he says "don't feel like anybody understands or knows who they are, much less cares what's happening to them."
Evangelical Christian voters helped Huckabee win the Iowa caucuses in 2008 and finish a strong second in South Carolina, the largest of the early-voting states.
He would need to replicate that early success to create an opening to build a wider coalition and compete deep into the primary schedule.
--- end FOX----

--- start NYT----
Mike Huckabee, a former Republican governor of Arkansas and preacher who has announced his run for the presidency on Tuesday, has been outspoken on a range of matters, particularly foreign policy and social issues like same-sex marriage.
Here are his stances on important issues.
Mr. Huckabee warns that radical Islam is a grave threat to the United States and says President Obama too frequently defends Islam.
He supports forceful military action against the Islamic State.
A strong defender of Israel, he has been sharply critical of Mr. Obama’s treatment of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, and said a proposed nuclear deal with Iran is “terrible” because Iran cannot be trusted.
Mr. Huckabee has talked of the possibility of using military force against Iran.
As governor of Arkansas in 2002, he called for lifting the economic embargo of Cuba, which would have helped rice farmers in his state.
But he now opposes Mr. Obama’s warming of relations with Havana, calling Cuba’s government tyrannical.
In 2007 Mr. Huckabee was quoted as saying, “Climate change is here, it’s real.” But more recently he has minimized it as a threat, and said he opposes “cap and trade” legislation meant to curtail carbon emissions.
“This kind of mandatory energy policy would have a horrible impact on this nation’s job market,” he said.
Mr. Huckabee opposes same-sex marriage, suggesting as recently as February that homosexuality is a lifestyle choice akin to drinking or swearing.
Mr. Huckabee said Mr. Obama exceeded his authority by issuing executive actions shielding millions of undocumented immigrants from deportation.
But Mr. Huckabee said the immigrant children whose parents brought them into the country illegally should not be deported because “you don’t punish a child for something his parents did.”
Mr. Huckabee has focused his economic message on what he calls wage stagnation under Mr. Obama.
But the former governor has opposed calls for a higher minimum wage, calling it government intrusion, and he has suggested that policies that encourage a dependency on federal benefits have helped hold wages down.
Unlike other Republican candidates, Mr. Huckabee is a strong defender of entitlement programs, opposing plans to raise the retirement age for collecting Social Security and criticizing plans to curtail Medicare.
Republicans who back such changes, he said, “are embracing a government that lied to its people — that took money from its people under one pretense and then took it away at the time when they started wanting to actually get what they have paid for all these years.”
--- end NYT----

--- start HPO (w error) ----
Mike Huckabee, the Baptist minister who became Arkansas governor, announced Tuesday he'll run for the 2016 Republican presidential nomination.
Huckabee made the announcement in his hometown of Hope, Arkansas.
"I am a candidate for president of the United States of America," he said.
During his announcement, Huckabee said that he would "conquer Jihadism" and protect Social Security.
He also criticized the Supreme Court for potentially overturning bans on same-sex marriage.
He also said that he favored term limits for individuals in all branches of the federal government -- including the judiciary.
"The Supreme Court is not the supreme being," he said.
Huckabee, 59, quit his job hosting his own Fox News show, "Huckabee," in January.
Last month, he began plotting campaign strategy and hiring staff.
Huckabee ran for president in 2008.
He joins an already crowded 2016 Republican field, and will likely enlist support from the party's far right wing, where he faces competition from Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas), who has positioned himself as a tea party favorite.
Huckabee said on CBS's "Face the Nation" last month that he's confident he can broaden his appeal beyond evangelical Christians and social conservatives to reach working-class Republicans concerned about the economy.
"There's a real sense in the Republican Party that there's no one speaking, not only to them, but speaking for them," Huckabee said then.
"And if someone can capture both the blue-collar, working-class Republicans, the conservatives, many of them even union members, as well as evangelicals, there's a real pathway to the nomination."
Huckabee, an ordained Southern Baptist minister, is a celebrated figure among evangelical Christians.
He was the longest-serving Arkansas governor, from 1996 to 2007.
He made national headlines for losing more than 110 pounds from 2003 to 2006, and he publicly addressed his struggles with weight.
His book, "Quit Digging Your Grave with a Knife and Fork," became a bestseller and he made obesity a major policy initiative as governor.
He ran for the GOP presidential nomination in 2008, capturing strong support from evangelical Christians and winning the Iowa caucuses.
But Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.), won most of the subsequent primaries, and Huckabee withdrew from the race that March.
His supporters expected him to run again in 2012, but he declined.
Since then, he has continued to influence the conservative movement as a charismatic public speaker and radio and television host.
Huckabee's religion has played a prominent role in his political career and shaped him as a staunch social conservative.
(TN) He wrote in his memoir, "From Hope to Higher Ground," that his work as a pastor helps him understand how politics and policy affect people.
"My experience dealing every day with real people who were genuinely affected by policies created by government gave me a deep understanding of the fragility of the human spirit and vulnerability of so many families who struggled from week to week," he wrote.
"I was in the ICU at 2 a.m. with families faced with the decision to disconnect a respirator on their loved one; I counseled fifteen-year-old pregnant girls who were afraid to tell their parents about their condition; I spent hours hearing the grief of women who had been physically and emotionally clobbered by an abusive husband."
As governor, Huckabee signed a ban on gay marriage (which was overturned by a federal judge last year), and he has been outspoken in his opposition against states legalizing marriage equality.
Last year, he argued that he's on "the right side of the Bible."
"You've got to understand, this for me is not about the right side or the wrong side of history, this is the right side of the Bible, and unless God rewrites it, edits it, sends it down with his signature on it, it's not my book to change.
Folks, that's why I stand where I stand," he said.
According to HuffPost Pollster, Huckabee falls behind a few other GOP 2016 candidates, trailing Sens. Rand Paul (Ky.) and Ted Cruz (Texas), and Marco Rubio (Fla.), but slightly edging out former neurosurgeon Ben Carson.
--- end HPO (w error) ----