--- start FOX----
GOP Rep. Paul Ryan is heading to Georgetown University for a speech Thursday morning, but not before an old-fashioned, Catholic school knuckle-rapping.
A group of nearly 90 professors and administrators connected to the Jesuit-founded school in Washington, D.C., has sent Ryan, R-Wis., a letter saying he’s misused Catholic doctrine to support his deficit-reducing, GOP House budget.
“We appreciate your willingness to talk about how Catholic social teaching can help inform effective policy in dealing with the urgent challenges facing our country,” the letter states.
“However, we would be remiss … if we did not challenge your continuing misuse of Catholic teaching to defend a budget plan that decimates food programs for struggling families, radically weakens protections for the elderly and sick and gives more tax breaks to the wealthiest few.”
Ryan, since introducing the budget last month, has talked about the doctrine in several interviews including one a couple weeks ago on the Christian Broadcasting Network.
In that interview, he invoked the Catholic teaching of "subsidiarity," saying it means "not having big government crowd out civic society, but ... having enough space in our communities so that we can interact with each other" and take care of people.
"To me, the principle of subsidiarity, which is really federalism, meaning government closest to the people governs best," he said.
The Georgetown University letter argues, though, that Ryan misappropriated the Catholic teaching as a “rationale for gutting government programs.”
The writers acknowledge that the teaching indeed calls for local-level solutions to problems but say it is “not a free pass to dismantle government” and requires higher levels of government.
The statement also quotes from the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops' letters to Congress saying budgets cannot rely on disproportionate cuts in essential services to the poor.
Ryan, a Catholic and chairman of the House Budget Committee, said last week the letters do not express the views of all U.S. bishops, a point on which the conference disagrees.
Georgetown's Public Policy Institute, which is hosting the upcoming Ryan lecture, said Wednesday the event is still scheduled for Thursday morning.
"Chairman Ryan remains grateful for Georgetown's invitation to advance a thoughtful dialogue this week on his efforts to avert a looming debt crisis that would hurt the poor the first and the worst,” a Ryan spokesman said.
“He looks forward to affirming our shared commitment to a preferential option for the poor, which of course does not mean a preferential option for bigger government."
Ryan, who was raised on Social Security benefits after his father died, also on Fox News defended his budget against the conference, saying for instance that the concept of denying tax credits to illegal immigrants is merely "following through on policy" that has had bipartisan support.
--- end FOX----

--- start NYT----
Representative Paul D. Ryan, the Republican chairman of the House Budget Committee, has been excoriated by some Roman Catholic leaders ever since he claimed this month that his budget plan, which slashes antipoverty programs, was inspired by the moral teachings of his Catholic faith.
The latest criticism comes in a letter released Tuesday and signed by nearly 90 faculty members and priests at Georgetown, the Jesuit university in Washington, in advance of Mr. Ryan’s visit there on Thursday.
Mr. Ryan is to deliver the prestigious Whittington Lecture, named for an associate dean who was killed on the airplane that crashed into the Pentagon on Sept. 11, 2001.
The letter says, “We would be remiss in our duty to you and our students if we did not challenge your continuing misuse of Catholic teaching to defend a budget plan that decimates food programs for struggling families, radically weakens protections for the elderly and sick, and gives more tax breaks to the wealthiest few.”
“Your budget appears to reflect the values of your favorite philosopher, Ayn Rand, rather than the Gospel of Jesus Christ,” says the letter, which the faculty members sent to Mr. Ryan along with a copy of the Vatican’s Compendium of the Social Doctrine of the Church — “to help deepen your understanding of Catholic social teaching.”
The pressure on Mr. Ryan is part of an effort by some Catholic leaders who are political independents, liberals and Democrats to make it clear that the Catholic church is not an arm of the Republican Party.
In the last year, Catholic bishops have emerged as vocal critics of the Obama administration over what they regard as violations of religious freedom, in particular the mandate that even religious employers must provide health insurance that covers birth control.
Their condemnation has grown so heated that this month, Bishop Daniel Jenky, of Peoria, Ill., said in a homily that President Obama was so intolerant of religion that he was “following a similar path” as Hitler and Stalin.
Dozens of faculty members at Notre Dame, also a Catholic university, sent a letter to the president and chairman of the board of trustees last Friday asking them to rebuke Bishop Jenky’s comments and seek his resignation from the board.
Bishop Jenky has stood by his comments.
The budget authored by Mr. Ryan, a rising star among conservatives, has given Catholic leaders an opportunity to distance the church from the Republican Party.
In an interview this month on the Christian Broadcasting Network, Mr. Ryan claimed that his budget was consistent with Catholic moral teaching because it pushes the poor to become independent of government assistance.
“The preferential option for the poor, which is one of the primary tenants of Catholic social teaching, means don’t keep people poor, don’t make people dependent on government so that they stay stuck at their station in life, help people get out of poverty out onto life of independence,” he said.
The letter released Tuesday by the faculty at Georgetown took Mr. Ryan to task for that argument, saying that Catholic teaching calls for government to step in and help when communities “face problems beyond their means to address, such as economic crises, high unemployment, endemic poverty and hunger.”
The United States Conference of Catholic Bishops has also issued several letters to members of Congress calling for a budget that prioritizes aid to the poor.
Mr. Ryan claimed in a recent interview that those letters did not speak for all bishops, but the conference responded that those letters do indeed represent the bishops’ collective opinion.
--- end NYT----

--- start HPO (w error) ----
WASHINGTON—Joining a chorus of Catholic bishops , theologians, priests, and social justice leaders, nearly 90 Georgetown University faculty and administrators have called Representative Paul Ryan (R-Wisc.) to task for his misuse of Catholic social teaching in defending his budget, which hurts the poor.
The group sent a letter to Rep. Ryan in advance of his appearance on the Catholic campus on Thursday morning to give the Whittington Lecture.
In their letter to Ryan, the scholars make clear they are not objecting to his speaking on campus, but rather his recent comments defending his budget on Christian grounds.
“Our problem with Representative Ryan is that he claims his budget is based on Catholic social teaching,” said Jesuit Father Thomas J. Reese , one of the organizers of the letter.
“This is nonsense.
As scholars, we want to join the Catholic bishops in pointing out that his budget has a devastating impact on programs for the poor.”
Reese is a senior fellow at the Woodstock Theological Center at Georgetown University.
The letter quotes the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops, which wrote several letters to Congress saying “a just framework for future budgets cannot rely on disproportionate cuts in essential services to poor persons.”
The bishops noted that “the House-passed budget resolution fails to meet these moral criteria.”
Last week, Rep. Ryan dismissed the bishops’ critique, erroneously claiming the letters didn’t represent “all the bishops,” a point the USCCB media office denied.
“I am afraid that Chairman Ryan’s budget reflects the values of his favorite philosopher Ayn Rand rather than the gospel of Jesus Christ,” said Father Reese.
“Survival of the fittest may be okay for Social Darwinists but not for followers of the gospel of compassion and love.”
(TN) The Georgetown scholars pointed to the devastating impact of cuts in food programs that keep the poor from starvation.
From personal experience, they also “know how cuts in Pell Grants will make it difficult for low-income students to pursue their educations at colleges across the nation, including Georgetown.”
The scholars corrected Mr. Ryan on his use of the Catholic concept of “subsidiarity” as “a rationale gutting government programs.”
The scholars say that it is true that “It calls for solutions to be enacted as close to the level of local communities as possible.
But it also demands that higher levels of government provide help—‘subsidium’—when communities and local governments face problems beyond their means to address such as economic crises, high unemployment, endemic poverty and hunger.”
The scholars also gave the Representative a reading assignment: “The Compendium of the Social Doctrine of the Church,” which was commissioned by John Paul II and published by the Vatican.
Signing the letter were over a dozen Georgetown Jesuit priests, numerous members of the Theology and other departments including History, Government, Philosophy, School of Foreign Service and School of Nursing & Health Studies.
--- end HPO (w error) ----