--- start HPO----
Former Mexican President Vicente Fox says Mexico will not pay for a wall along the U.S. border, despite what GOP presidential hopeful Donald Trump may claim.
Fox said, as a taxpayer, he’s not willing to fund Trump’s big idea.
“I’m not going to pay for that fucking wall,” Fox told Fusion’s Jorge Ramos in an interview airing Thursday.
“He should pay [for] it. He’s got the money.”
The GOP front-runner, who has made many outrageous comments about Latinos including calling Mexican immigrants "criminals" and "rapists," insists he'll coerce Mexico into paying for a wall to keep undocumented migrants out of the U.S. if he's elected.
(The real estate mogul estimates the price tag at around $8 billion.)
Fox, however, isn't worried that Trump will actually win the presidency.
"Democracy cannot pick crazy people that doesn't know what's going on in the world today," he said.
Ramos pointed out that Trump likely won among Hispanics during Tuesday’s Nevada caucus -- a statistic that has a few caveats.
"I'd like to know who those Hispanics are," Fox said.
"They're followers of a false prophet."
Felipe Calderon, who was president of Mexico from 2006 to 2012, has also dismissed Trump's idea.
"Mexican people, we are not going to pay any single cent for such a stupid wall," he said earlier this month.
"And it's going to be completely useless. ...
If this guy pretends that closing the borders to anywhere either for trade [or] for people is going to provide prosperity to the United States, he is completely crazy."
--- end HPO----

--- start NYT----
At almost all of his campaign rallies, Donald J. Trump leads a familiar refrain as he details his plan to build a giant wall along the border with Mexico.
“Who’s gonna pay?” he asks.
Without fail, Mr. Trump’s adoring fans reply, “Mexico!”
While the Mexican government has said little about Mr. Trump’s plan to beef up border security, two of the country’s former presidents have a message for Mr. Trump: Mexico won’t pay.
“I’m not going to pay,” Vicente Fox said, using a profanity to comment about the wall Thursday in an interview with Fusion.
“He should pay for it. He’s got the money.”
Mr. Fox, who was president of Mexico from 2000 to 2006, was clear in his opposition to Mr. Trump, calling him “egocentric” and lacking in any political values.
Mr. Fox also expressed disbelief that Mr. Trump did well with Hispanic voters in the Nevada caucuses on Tuesday and called on them to open their eyes.
“I’d like to know who those Hispanics are,” Mr. Fox said.
“They are followers of a false prophet.”
Mr. Fox’s successor, Felipe Calderón, expressed similar concerns about the wall this month.
“Mexican people, we are not going to pay any single cent for such a stupid wall!” Mr. Calderón told CNBC.
“And it’s going to be completely useless.”
Mr. Calderón, who was president from 2006 until 2012, went on to argue that Mr. Trump was misinformed about the flow of immigrants from Mexico to the United States and that closing the border would harm America’s economy.
For his part, Mr. Trump has insisted that as president he would have the leverage to compel Mexico to pay for the wall, which he estimates would cost about $8 billion.
On Thursday, however, he appeared to be more angered by Mr. Fox’s tone.
Mr. Trump, who has been criticized for lacing his campaign speeches with profanity, called on Mr. Fox to apologize for using foul language when talking about the wall.
--- end NYT----

--- start FOX (w error) ----
Former Mexican President Vincente Fox made it loud and clear that he won’t be chipping in for any part of Donald Trump’s proposed wall along the U.S.-Mexico border.
"I’m not going to pay for that f***ing wall!” Fox told Jorge Ramos in an interview for Fusion.
“He should pay for it. He’s got the money.”
While Fox said that he believes that Americans will not elect the real estate tycoon to the White House, he is concerned about the results of the Nevada caucus, in which, according to entrance polls, Trump won 44 percent of the Hispanic vote.
"I would like to know who those Hispanics are, because they are followers of a false prophet," Fox said.
"He’s going to take them to the desert, and if they think that they will benefit with an administration led by Donald Trump, they’re wrong.
They must open their eyes. Please, you Hispanics in the U.S. – open your eyes."
Fox added, "It is not to defend our race, it is not to defend our creed, but to defend the same nation that is hosting you.
This nation is going to fail if it falls into the hands of a crazy man."
The former Mexican president, who led the country from 2000 to 2006, also questioned Trump’s allegiance to the Republican party, or, for that matter, any political party.
"He’s not a Republican. Absolutely not,” Fox said.
“Those are not Republican principles. He is not a Democrat. He is just himself. He is egocentric."
The comments from Fox echo those of his successor, Felipe Calderón, who a week ago asserted that Mexico will not pay for a border wall.
“Mexican people, we are not going to pay a single cent for such a stupid wall!
And it's going to be completely useless,” Calderón told CNBC.
For months, Trump has stood by his initial comments about building a border wall and getting Mexico to pay for it.
The morning after Calderón made the comments, the GOP front-runner appeared on MSNBC's "Morning Joe."
“I heard the head of Mexico said ‘no way,’ and I said, ‘Now the wall just got taller,” Trump said.
Fox’s interview on Fusion comes about 6 months after Ramos had his own very public skirmish with Trump in which the Spanish-language news icon confronted the billionaire during a press conference in Iowa – prompting the candidate's security team to remove Ramos from the room.
Ramos later returned and Trump took several of his questions.
“He tried to silence me,” the Mexican-born journalist told Fox News’ Megyn Kelly in August.
“And in this country, you cannot do that.
I’m a citizen. I’m an immigrant. I’m a reporter.
And I have the right in this country to ask any question I want, to whomever I want.”
Ramos’ interview with Fox also occurred as U.S. Vice President Joe Biden paid a visit to Mexico for an economic summit.
Biden made a thinly-veiled attack on Trump on Thursday, decrying the reality TV star’s "dangerous" rhetoric.
"Some of the rhetoric coming from some presidential candidates of the other team are, I think, dangerous, damaging and incredibly ill-advised," Biden said, according to AFP.
(FP) "I'm here to tell you: They do not, they do not, they do not represent the view of the vast majority of the American people.”

--- end FOX (w error) ----