--- start FOX----
Schumer bashed by the left over shutdown-ending deal
Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer is taking heat from some of the most influential and deep-pocketed groups in the liberal base for caving to Republicans in the shutdown standoff.
“Today’s cave by most Senate Democrats was … a stunning display of moral and political cowardice," said Democracy for America, just one of several such groups bashing Schumer for the stand-down on Monday.
“Most Senate Democrats, including Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer, voted to allow Donald Trump to continue to subject an ever-growing number of Dreamers to lives threatened by deportation from the only home they’ve ever known.”
Schumer and fellow Senate Democrats forced the shutdown over the weekend after insisting that any temporary spending bill to keep the government fully operational include permanent protections for the so-called DREAMers -- immigrants brought illegally to the United States as children.
The four-term New York senator and the dozens of other Democrats who initially voted Friday to block the spending bill had been lauded by their progressive base even as nearly 1 million federal workers were furloughed without pay.
“Let the Senate know we stand with them for the Dreamers … say THANKS!
to @SenSchumer and your own senator, and to urge them to stay strong,” tweeted the Brooklyn, N.Y., chapter of Indivisible Nation, a leader in the progressive, Resist Trump movement.
Yet by the time Schumer said Monday afternoon on the Senate floor that Democrats would soon vote in support of ending the shutdown, in exchange for Republicans’ commitment to promptly craft and vote on legislation to help DREAMers, Schumer’s support had turned.
He suddenly faced calls to rally outside his Brooklyn apartment and suggestions that his leadership position was no longer secure.
“This deal was morally reprehensible and political malpractice.
It’s Senator Schumer’s job to keep the caucus together and fight for progressive values.
He failed in that today,” said Indivisible co-founder Ezra Levin.
“The big blue wave that Schumer hopes will make him Senate majority leader in 2019 will not build itself.”
Democracy for America, the political action committee founded by former Democratic presidential candidate Howard Dean, also said: "If you want to know why we lost in 2016 and why a Democratic wave in 2018 is far from guaranteed … look no further than this weak and profoundly disappointing cave from Senate Democrats.”
Members of the “No, DREAM, No Deal” began stepping up their calls for Schumer and others to “stand strong” Sunday night, when Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., suggested a compromise had been reached, without offering any solid commitment.
“When the Democrat filibuster of the government funding bill ends, the serious, bipartisan negotiations that have been going on for months now to resolve our unfinished business -- military spending; disaster relief; healthcare; immigration and border security -- will continue,” he said.
“Assuming that the government remains open, it would be my intention to proceed to legislation that would address DACA.”
Schumer, near the time of his announcement Monday, pledged his continued support for DREAMers, tweeting: “Soon, the govt will reopen, and we have a lot to do: #ProtectDreamers.
Write a budget, Address health care, veterans, disaster relief, pensions & the opioid epidemic.
The #TrumpShutdown will soon end, but the work goes on.”
But by the time Republicans had the 60-plus votes, with support from 33 Democrats, the revolt was in full force.
“Enough is enough,” said Lorella Praeli, director of immigration policy and campaigns at the American Civil Liberties Union.
“We cannot rely on empty promises from those who have already proven to play politics with the lives of Dreamers.
… Let it be known -- we will be watching, and will make sure voters this November know if their representatives stood for Dreamers or for their deportations.”
The short-term deal now only gives Congress until Feb. 8 to work out longer-term legislation, and an agreement on immigration.
Trump tweeted Tuesday he's not sure it will happen.
"Nobody knows for sure that the Republicans & Democrats will be able to reach a deal on DACA by February 8, but everyone will be trying....with a big additional focus put on Military Strength and Border Security.
The Dems have just learned that a Shutdown is not the answer!" he said.
--- end FOX----

--- start HPO----
Liberals Fume At 'Worst Negotiator' Chuck Schumer After Deal To End Shutdown
WASHINGTON ― Democrats provided votes to fund the government on Monday in exchange for an assurance from Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) that he would put an immigration bill on the floor in the coming weeks.
Liberal groups, which are deeply skeptical whether Republicans will keep their word after years of inaction on codifying protections for the undocumented young people often called Dreamers, angrily slammed Democrats ― and in particular Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) ― for giving away leverage with no firm promise that an immigration bill would reach President Donald Trump’s desk.
“It’s official: Chuck Schumer is the worst negotiator in Washington ― even worse than Trump.
Any plan to protect Dreamers that relies on the word of serial liars like Mitch McConnell, Paul Ryan or Donald Trump is doomed to fail,” CREDO Political Director Murshed Zaheed said in a statement.
CREDO Action, the activist arm of the wireless phone company, advocates for progressive causes, including immigrants rights and the passage of legislation that would give Dreamers a pathway to citizenship.
MoveOn.org, one of the most influential progressive organizations in Washington, similarly panned the agreement that 33 Senate Democrats voted to advance to a final vote on Monday.
“This is a bad, outrageous deal.
Trump and Republicans in Congress stood with their anti-immigrant nativist base, and too many Democrats backed down, abandoned Dreamers, and failed to fight for their values,” MoveOn.org Political Action Executive Director Ilya Sheyman said in a statement.
McConnell said over the weekend that he intends to move to vote on an immigration bill if both parties can’t agree to one by Feb. 8, as long as the government is still fully open.
The admission left some Senate Democrats encouraged by the prospect of a bipartisan solution ― even if they have no guarantee from House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.) that it will pass in the House.
“I believe Sen. McConnell will follow through,” independent Sen. Angus King of Maine, who caucuses with the Democrats, told reporters on Monday.
“I think he’s made his commitments so publicly and so unequivocally.”
Other Democrats, such as Sen. Kamala Harris (Calif.), remained unconvinced that McConnell and the House Republicans would follow through on immigration.
“I don’t believe he made any commitment whatsoever and I think it would be foolhardy to believe that he made a commitment,” Harris said.
While Senate Democrats did not receive everything they asked for in exchange for voting to reopen the government, they did manage to get the Children’s Health Insurance Program funded for six years.
And if McConnell doesn’t follow through on immigration, Democrats will still be able to use his promise to vote against the next spending bill on Feb. 8 and pin the blame on Republicans.
For now, though, Democrats who voted to reopen the government said that simply pushing the conversation in the right direction was a victory on its own.
“I don’t think I can guarantee a House outcome but I think the stronger the bill, in terms of the strength of the bipartisanship in the bill ― the odds go up in the House,” Sen. Tim Kaine (D-Va.) told HuffPost on Monday.
--- end HPO----

--- start NYT (w error) ----
Senate Democrats’ Vote to End Shutdown Infuriates Some on the Left
WASHINGTON — The decision by Senate Democrats to end the government shutdown on Monday in exchange for a promised immigration vote enraged liberals, who accused the lawmakers of betrayal and threatened to mount primaries against some of the Democrats who voted yes.
Regardless of what happens in the Senate, progressive and immigrant advocacy groups said House Republican leaders will never take up a bill that would offer legal status to young undocumented immigrants brought to the country as children without excruciating concessions on other immigration issues.
They accused Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, and moderate Democratic senators of capitulating to protect senators up for re-election in November in Republican-leaning states.
“They blinked because they’ll always put the party and the success of the party first,” said Representative Luis V. Gutiérrez of Illinois, one of the leading Democratic advocates for immigrants, complaining that Hispanics got short shrift.
“It’s the one word they know in Spanish: mañana.”
The hasty retreat by 33 Senate Democrats was particularly humiliating in the immediate aftermath of the anniversary of the Women’s March, which saw thousands of activists reconvene in cities across the country to protest against President Trump and congressional Republicans.
Liberal groups such as MoveOn.org began urging members to sign up on Monday for rallies aimed at pressuring Republicans to protect the young undocumented immigrants known as Dreamers.
By noon, their own ostensible allies in Congress had buckled.
“The grass-roots are rightly furious with a slew of elected Democrats,” said Ben Wikler, the Washington director of MoveOn.org.
“In the Obama years, Republicans learned to be more afraid of primary challenges than general elections.
But Democrats are still operating as though the Tea Party is more powerful than The Resistance.”
The anger on the left was reminiscent of conservative unrest that fueled primary race challenges against sitting Republican senators accused of appeasing an opposition president, Barack Obama, and his congressional allies.
Mr. Schumer, determined to keep the fissures in his party coalition muted, used a meeting of Senate Democrats before the vote to urge the liberals in his caucus not to criticize those voting to reopen the government, according to one senator who spoke on the condition of anonymity to discuss a private meeting.
And for the most part, the liberal senators who opposed the agreement held their fire.
Democrats have largely avoided the internal insurrections that upended Republicans over the past decade.
Mr. Schumer is not a figure of derision on the left as Mr. McConnell is on the right.
And Senate Democrats have crushed most primary election challenges easily.
Senate leaders have intervened freely in a number of 2018 races — in states like Arizona and Tennessee — to anoint more moderate standard-bearers.
Former Senator Byron L. Dorgan, Democrat of North Dakota, said Democrats from the more rural states that make up much of the 2018 map would prefer to battle over issues other than immigration.
The Obama-era program that protected young undocumented immigrants — Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA — is an important issue, he said, but “it isn’t the bread and butter of successful Democrat politics.”
“Our major issues are jobs, Medicare, Medicaid, CHIP, Social Security, infrastructure, supporting domestic programs, clean air, safe drinking water,” Mr. Dorgan said, adding of his conservative-state brethren, “While those Democrats do strongly support DACA, I’m sure they would prefer to be discussing different issues.”
But the patience of the left may be running thin.
By appearing to retreat on Monday, Democrats have stirred new talk on the left about challenging incumbents who had previously given little thought to their own nominations.
Faiz Shakir, the political director of the American Civil Liberties Union and an adviser to former Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, said the group and its allies were actively exploring places to intervene in primary elections.
Mr. Shakir said of some Democrats that it is an “open question, still, whether they’re going to fight for Dreamers.”
Right now, only one Democratic senator faces a serious primary challenge: Senator Dianne Feinstein of California, who voted against the government-funding deal and complained privately that she and most of her colleagues had been asked to vote on Friday against a nearly identical measure to keep the government open.
Ms. Feinstein has tacked to the left since Kevin de Léon, the president of the California State Senate, announced his challenge to her in October.
Mr. de Léon said Monday that Democrats had made a grave mistake striking “another fingers-crossed bargain with Donald Trump and Mitch McConnell.”
Mr. de Léon said he had called and left a voice mail message with Thomas E. Perez, the Democratic National Committee chairman, and planned to convey that Democrats had sent a terrible message to “voters of color and millennial voters who feel like they’ve been abandoned.”
“Once again, the party’s leaders in Washington have capitulated, compromised and redrawn a line in the sand even further away from justice,” he said.
One House Democrat is already under fire for not taking a stronger stance on behalf of immigrants: Representative Daniel Lipinski of Illinois, a moderate Democrat from Chicago who is facing a primary race challenger, Marie Newman, in March.
“I asked him to sign on to Dream bill.
He said, ‘I don’t think I can do that,’” said Mr. Gutiérrez, whoendorsed Ms. Newman last week.
(Mr. Lipinski opposed the measure in 2010 but has said in recent months that he would support it if it comes to the House floor.)
The chances of a successful primary election challenge in the Senate are far more remote.
Many of the Democrats facing re-election in November hail from states that Mr. Trump carried and are more concerned about well-funded Republican opponents than liberal challengers.
Of the 10 Democrats who gathered outside the Senate chamber after the vote to crow about their bipartisan agreement, six are on the ballot this year.
(TN) “If you want results, you have to compromise, and if you’re unwilling to compromise, you won’t get results,” said Senator Heidi Heitkamp, Democrat of North Dakota.
“You maybe get a political issue, but you won’t get results.
And I didn’t come here to do politics.”
Progressives, however, are already eyeing one of the Democrats who pushed for a compromise: Senator Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota.
On a conference call convened Sunday night by liberal groups, there was notable anger toward Ms. Klobuchar, according to two participants.
Ms. Klobuchar, however, illustrates why the Democratic base may find it difficult to inflict payback: She is broadly popular with liberals in Minnesota, and the shutdown fight has come late enough in the congressional calendar to leave any would-be challenger with little time to prepare.
“I have been working hard for the people of Minnesota, and I think the people of Minnesota understand that, including in my party,” Ms. Klobuchar said.
--- end NYT (w error) ----