--- start HPO----
Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg hasn’t been shy in recent days about the prospect of a Donald Trump presidency, joking that she might move to New Zealand if it ever happens.
“I can’t imagine what this place would be ― I can’t imagine what the country would be ― with Donald Trump as our president,” Ginsburg told The New York Times in an article published Sunday.
“For the country, it could be four years.
For the court, it could be ― I don’t even want to contemplate that.”
That tracks a comment she made in a separate interview with The Associated Press, when the justice stopped short of noting she’d rather have presumptive Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton making future appointments to the Supreme Court.
“I don’t want to think about that possibility,” Ginsburg said when asked to consider Trump in the role of appointer-in-chief. 
Now a number of legal academics and Supreme Court observers are raising questions about the propriety of Ginsburg’s candor and what it might mean for the court’s integrity ― with some suggesting she might have to recuse herself from considering any Trump-related case that reaches the high court.
“The other justices should hold an intervention, and tell her to be quiet or step down,” wrote Josh Blackman, a Houston College of Law professor who frequently writes about the high court.
“This isn’t funny anymore.” He added that Ginsburg’s comments are “beyond the pale.”
Rick Hasen, another avid court watcher who specializes in election law, wrote that Ginsburg’s statements could very well lead a “reasonable person” to question her impartiality in a future politically charged case.
“I think this is ultimately a question for judicial ethicists, but I do think following these comments it is a legitimate question to raise, should Donald Trump’s campaign come to the Court with any legal questions before the election,” he wrote in his widely read Election Law Blog.
Dmitry Bam, a professor at the University of Maine School of Law who has written on judicial recusals and ethics, said “there is little question that she has crossed a line.”
“For a court that cares a great deal about appearances, this certainly creates the appearance that justices take sides in elections,” Bam wrote in an email.
“And if Trump v. Clinton arises in the fall, I would say that there is at the very least an appearance of bias if Justice Ginsburg participates.”
Under federal law, justices must step aside from cases where their “impartiality might reasonably be questioned” ― and they did so in 180 cases during the court’s last term, according to a new analysis by Fix the Court, a group that pushes for structural reform at the Supreme Court.
Fix the Court found that the bulk of recent recusals were due to the justices’ prior work as appellate judges or in government positions.
Other recusals were related to stock ownership and family ties to judges or lawyers who participated in earlier stages of the cases.
But recusals for political views or implicit support for certain positions are exceedingly rare, even in the face of a code of judicial conduct that guides federal judges on extra-judicial activities and how to avoid even the appearance of impropriety.
Even with that guidance and other self-imposed checks in place, the justices have time and again declined to step aside in cases of high political salience ― most recently in the same-sex marriage cases, where Ginsburg and Justices Elena Kagan and Clarence Thomas all took part despite calls for them to recuse.
“I’m not aware [that] any justice before has ever commented on the merits or demerits of a presidential candidate,” said Ed Whelan, the president of the Ethics and Public Policy Center and a frequent contributor to the conservative National Review Online, where he has chronicled this episode and what he deems Ginsburg’s “remarkable record of indiscretions.”
“I may very well share her concerns about Donald Trump ... but the ethics concerns don’t depend on the soundness or unsoundness of the candidate,” Whelan added.
But what if this is less a question about ethics and more about wanting our judges to be candid about their positions and biases ― and that the political process itself has done away with the veneer that the high court is entirely apolitical?
“Most people now recognize that judges are heavily influenced by their personal beliefs and experiences,” said Bam, of the Maine School of Law.
“We have watched one party refuse to hold hearings based the politics of the president and his potential nominees.
Judges time their retirements to coincide with a certain party being in office.
And the 5-4 decision in Bush v. Gore, along partisan lines, also shows the political nature of the court,” Bam said.
“So perhaps the pretense that judges are nonpartisan and apolitical does more harm than good.”
--- end HPO----

--- start NYT----
Donald J. Trump on Tuesday assailed Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg of the Supreme Court for speaking out on the presidential race, calling her disdainful remarks about his candidacy “highly inappropriate” and suggesting that she owed other justices an apology.
Mr. Trump’s remarks came in a telephone interview with The Times two days after Justice Ginsburg was quoted as saying she was frightened about what the nation would look like if he were elected.
“I can’t imagine what this place would be — I can’t imagine what the country would be — with Donald Trump as our president,” Justice Ginsburg told The Times in an interview published Sunday.
“For the country, it could be four years.
For the court, it could be — I don’t even want to contemplate that.”
She even joked ruefully about moving to New Zealand.
Mr. Trump, the presumptive Republican nominee, said he found those remarks unbefitting a member of the high court.
“I think it’s highly inappropriate that a United States Supreme Court judge gets involved in a political campaign, frankly,” Mr. Trump said.
“I think it’s a disgrace to the court and I think she should apologize to the court.
I couldn’t believe it when I saw it.”
He continued: “That she should be saying that?
It’s so beneath the court for her to be making statements like that.
It only energizes my base even more.
And I would hope that she would get off the court as soon as possible.”
Mr. Trump also said he expected to announce his choice of a running mate by Friday, winding down a process that has been closely watched as in all likelihood the most significant decision he will make in his campaign.
“I have five candidates, plus two, two that are unknown to anybody,” Mr. Trump said from Chicago, where he was raising money for his campaign.
“I will be making a decision over the next three- to four-day period of time, and I think it will be a decision that will be a very good decision for a lot of people,” he added.
Mr. Trump said that he was not basing his vice-presidential selection on fund-raising prowess or potential, and indicated that he had had enough experience with many of those he has been considering for the job that their tryouts on the campaign trail would not necessarily be determinative.
“I’ve been with these people for a long time — I know them,” Mr. Trump said, specifically invoking Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey and Newt Gingrich, the former House speaker.
“Christie was excellent yesterday and Newt is excellent.” Mr. Trump will appear on Tuesday night in Indiana with Gov. Mike Pence, who has risen in the estimation of many of the nominee’s advisers.
Mr. Trump said his decision was largely coming down to instinct.
“A lot of is gut. A lot of it is,” he said.
“My whole life has been about gut.”
He also suggested that he would consider polling in states like heavily Democratic Connecticut, which he again said he believed he could put in play in November.
Asked for quick thoughts about each of the candidates he is known to be considering, Mr. Trump played along.
Governor Christie? “Strong,” he said.
Retired Lt. Gen. Mike Flynn? “A patriot.”
Senator Joni Ernst of Iowa? “A terrific, exciting person.”
Governor Pence? “Solid as a rock.”
And Mr. Gingrich? “Newt is Newt. He’s a good guy.”
--- end NYT----

--- start FOX (w error) ----
Supreme Court Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg faced a growing and bipartisan backlash Wednesday -- including a call from Donald Trump to resign -- as she doubled down on her criticism of the presumptive GOP nominee, calling him a “faker” who is unqualified to be president.
Even political figures and newspaper editorial writers who might agree with the comments swiftly said they were out of line for a high court justice.
And Trump himself lashed out on Twitter, saying:
Justice Ginsburg of the U.S. Supreme Court has embarrassed all by making very dumb political statements about me.
Her mind is shot - resign!
The liberal icon justice had kicked off the storm with comments to The New York Times published Saturday.
“I can’t imagine what this place would be — I can’t imagine what the country would be -- with Donald Trump as our president.
For the country, it could be four years.
For the court, it could be -- I don’t even want to contemplate that,” she said.
She doubled down late Monday, telling CNN: “He is a faker.”
"He has no consistency about him.
He says whatever comes into his head at the moment.
He really has an ego.
... How has he gotten away with not turning over his tax returns?
(TN) The press seems to be very gentle with him on that," she said.
Trump swiftly responded Tuesday, telling the Times it was “highly inappropriate that a United States Supreme Court judge gets involved in a political campaign.”
“I think it’s a disgrace to the court and I think she should apologize to the court.
I couldn’t believe it when I saw it,” the presumptive Republican nominee said.
Trump’s criticisms were echoed by Republican congressional leaders.
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said Tuesday Ginsburg’s comments were “totally inappropriate.”
"It raises a level of skepticism that the American people have from time to time about just how objective the Supreme Court is, whether they're over there to call the balls and strikes, or weigh in on one side or another," he said.
House Speaker Paul Ryan used similar language at a CNN event Tuesday.
"For someone on the Supreme Court who is going to be calling balls and strikes in the future based upon whatever the next president and Congress does, that strikes me as inherently biased and out of the realm," Ryan said.
Ginsburg’s comments also left Democratic lawmakers squirming.
“We all know that the justices on the Supreme Court have political views.
I’m not sure we’re well served by them airing them out in the open,” Sen. Chris Murphy, D-Conn., told Politico.
“She may have got out over her skis a little bit and more forthright and political than she should have been.
It’s very unusual,” Senate Minority Whip Dick Durbin, D-Ill., told the outlet.
Mainstream media outlets also joined in the chorus of criticism.
“However valid her comments may have been, though, and however in keeping with her known political bent, they were still much, much better left unsaid by a member of the Supreme Court,” The Washington Post’s editorial board said Tuesday.
“Politicization, real or perceived, undermines public faith in the impartiality of the courts.”
The board noted the Code of Conduct for U.S. judges says that a “judge should not ... publicly endorse or oppose a candidate for public office.”
The New York Times also chimed in: “Washington is more than partisan enough without the spectacle of a Supreme Court justice flinging herself into the mosh pit."
Wednesday morning brought some relief for the under-fire justice, with Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders giving qualified support for her comments.
While the Democratic presidential candidate declined to comment on whether her comments were appropriate, he said on ABC he agrees Trump is a "total opportunist" and said "the record is quite clear that he lies just a whole lot of the time."
--- end FOX (w error) ----