--- start FOX----
President Trump’s immigration compromise package to end the partial government shutdown drew sharp reactions from Democratic and Republican lawmakers alike.
In a televised White House address on Saturday afternoon, Trump offered Democrats a three-year extension of protections for 700,000 Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) recipients, in exchange for the $5.7 billion he has been seeking for a barrier along the nation's southern border with Mexico.
“Our immigration system should be a source of pride ... not a source of shame as it is all over the world,” Trump said in his plea.
The president’s proposal was met with disdain from an array of top Democratic lawmakers.
Many used the same language in their critiques, accusing Trump of holding the government and federal workers "hostage."
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., tweeted, “What we didn’t hear from the President was any sympathy for the federal workers who face so much uncertainty because of the chaos of the #TrumpShutdown.”
Before Trump made his announcement, Pelosi had called his anticipated proposal “a non-starter.”
“For one thing, this proposal does not include the permanent solution for the Dreamers and TPS recipients that our country needs and supports.”
For his part, Chuck Schumer, the Senate minority leader, called Trump's proposal "one-sided and ineffective."
"It's clear the President realizes that by closing the government and hurting so many American workers and their families, he has put himself and the country in an untenable position.
Unfortunately, he keeps putting forward one-sided and ineffective remedies.
There's only one way out: open the government, Mr. President, and then Democrats and Republicans can have a civil discussion and come up with bipartisan solutions."
Schumer, D-N.Y., concluded, "It was the President who single-handedly took away DACA and TPS protections in the first place – offering some protections back in exchange for the wall is not a compromise but more hostage taking."
House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer shared a similar sentiment, urging Trump and Sen. Mitch McConnell to "stop holding government hostage and end the shutdown" immediately.
“The president must stop holding government hostage and end the shutdown so federal employees can get back to work serving the American people.
There is no reason for Americans to be shut out of work and without a paycheck while negotiations take place on the best way to secure our borders,” he said.
Hoyer said negotiation can progress after the government reopens.
“With the government open, we can negotiate an agreement to strengthen border security that both sides can support and that is in the best interests of the American people.”
Another leading Dem, Sen. Kristen Gillibrand of New York, who announced her White House bid on Jan. 15 in an episode of "The Late Show with Stephen Colbert," said Trump's offer was a "bad deal."
Gillibrand tweeted: "Trump ordered the end of DACA and TPS.
Then he shut down the government.
Now he's holding federal workers hostage, saying he'll temporarily give back what he took away -- only if we give him a pointless, ineffective wall he falsely promised Mexico would pay for.
This is a bad deal."
Then there was New Jersey Sen. Bob Menendez's response. He bluntly accused Trump of forcing "a pointless shutdown" to pay for the border wall.
"This is about more than 800,000 Americans who are being held hostage by a President who has forced a pointless shutdown to pay for an expensive, ineffective wall.
This is not about immigration.
Dreamers and TPS recipients are not bargaining chips.
It's unacceptable that after taking away DACA protections, eliminating the TPS program for thousands of immigrants and creating a humanitarian crisis at the border, President Trump is offering temporary solutions in exchange for a permanent wall."
The Democratic senator also said "a legitimate negotiation" can proceed after the government is reopened.
Fellow Democratic Sen. Chris Coons of Delaware slammed McConnell for refusing "to meaningfully negotiate with Senate Democrats," but also called Trump's offer "a first step toward comprehensive immigration reform."
"This senseless government shutdown is hurting millions of Americans, and its impacts are only getting worse. The President should re-open the government so that Republicans and Democrats in Congress can work with the White House to find a sensible solution on border security and immigration.
I am confident that a reasonable compromise can be reached, but not while President Trump continues to keep significant parts of the government shut down and Leader McConnell refuses to meaningfully negotiate with Senate Democrats," he said.
"Some relief for Dreamers and an extension of Temporary Protected Status represent a first step toward comprehensive immigration reform, but more ideas from members of both parties should be taken up and debated.
Republicans and Democrats stand ready to work toward a solution, but the fact remains that there is no reason to have large parts of the federal government shut down while we debate appropriate border security and immigration policies."
Republican lawmakers, at the opposite end of the reaction spectrum, praised the president for his willingness to negotiate.
Senate Majority Leader McConnell, for instance, commended the president "for taking bipartisan steps toward addressing current immigration issues."
In his statement, he said; “Compromise in divided government means that everyone can’t get everything they want every time.
The president’s proposal reflects that.
It strikes a fair compromise by incorporating priorities from both sides of the aisle."
“This bill takes a bipartisan approach to re-opening the closed portions of the federal government.
It pairs the border security investment that our nation needs with additional immigration measures that both Democrat and Republican members of Congress believe are necessary.
Unlike the bills that have come from the House over the past few weeks, this proposal could actually resolve this impasse.
It has the full support of the President and could be signed into law to quickly reopen the government."
Republican Whip Steve Scalise called on Democrats to match Trump's willingness to negotiate.
"The time for political games has long passed.
Democrats must put their personal dislike of the president aside, end their obstruction, and finally come to the negotiating table.
It's time Democrats do what is right for the functioning and security of our nation and agree to a deal that opens our government, and includes funding for a border wall and other measures to solve this serious immigration crisis at our southern border," he said in a statement.
Also on the Republican side, Sen. Susan Collins of Maine said she was "hopeful" for a "constructive debate" with Democrats.
“Compromise is not a sign of weakness — it’s a sign of strength, particularly when hundreds of thousands of families are being harmed.
The Administration, Senate Republicans, and Democrats must now resolve this stalemate before 800,000 federal workers and their families miss yet another paycheck, and our economy is further damaged,” she said.
Sen. Mitt Romney, R-Utah, whose views on the president and his policies have fluctuated, said Trump "put forth a reasonable, good faith proposal that will reopen the government and help secure the border."
He tweeted, "I look forward to voting for it and will work to encourage my Republican and Democratic colleagues to do the same.
Earlier, while speaking in Ogden, Utah, Romney said he did not understand Pelosi's position on border security.
"You (Pelosi) and your fellow Democrats have voted for over 600 miles of border fence in the past, why won't you vote for another few miles now? I don't understand their position, I really don't," the Republican senator said.
Florida Sen. Marco Rubio took a positive view of Trump's proposed deal, like his fellow Republicans.
He said Trump made "a very reasonable offer" and urged Democrats to work with him.
“The way to end this shutdown is for both sides to make mutual concessions in order to reach an agreement.
The president has made a very reasonable offer to extend DACA and TPS protections in exchange for the border security measures he supports.
I hope that instead of choosing the road of endless obstruction, Democrats will decide to work with him to reach an agreement and end the shutdown,” he said.
Likewise, House Republican Leader Kevin McCarthy called the president's immigration offer "reasonable."
McCarthy tweeted: "President Trump has put forward a serious and reasonable offer to reform parts of our broken immigration system and reopen government.
The moment now turns to Nancy Pelosi and Chuck Schumer. The country is watching."

--- end FOX----

--- start HPO----
WASHINGTON ― President Donald Trump’s offer to Democrats over the weekend seeking to trade temporary protections for some immigrants in exchange for funding for a wall on the U.S.-Mexico border received positive coverage from some outlets, including being called a “compromise” and a move by Trump “toward the center.”
But the latest details in the proposal, which Senate Republicans unveiled Monday in a bill they plan to vote on this week, make the offer appear less of a compromise and more of a wish list for immigration hard-liners like White House adviser Stephen Miller.
Trump is offering a three-year extension for the Obama-era Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program, which protects from deportation hundreds of thousands of immigrants brought to the U.S. as kids.
The offer would also give a three-year extension to 300,000 people from El Salvador, Haiti, Nicaragua and Honduras who are living in the U.S. under the temporary protected status program.
Democrats rejected the offer before Trump even announced it on Saturday, however, maintaining that it didn’t go nearly far enough and that the president ought to reopen the government before any negotiations over the border proceed.
But the GOP bill incorporating his offer would also gut existing asylum laws for children and trafficking victims from Central America, ban asylum for minors who present themselves at ports of entry, gut the concept of temporary protected status for future cases and expand immigration detention ― all measures making it more likely to be dead on arrival in the Senate.
“Given the poison pills stuffed into a proposal that was supposed to entice Democrats we can now say the Trump ‘offer’ isn’t about getting to a deal but about shifting blame.
So obvious. So predictable. So pathetic,” Frank Sharry, the executive director of the immigration advocacy group America’s Voice, tweeted on Tuesday.
The bill would ban asylum for Central American minors, including those who arrive at the border with their parents, unless the minors apply for asylum in their home country.
It would also cap the number of Central American minors who are allowed to apply for asylum each year at 50,000 and limit the number of asylum applications that could be granted per year to 15,000.
The administration has for months tried to reduce the number of people seeking asylum in the U.S. as part of a broader effort to stem the flow of Central American migrants crossing the border from Mexico.
Trump’s administrative attempts to curtail the asylum process have faced legal challenges in two federal courts, however, prompting this week’s legislative fix.
“This bill includes the most extreme changes on asylum that I’ve ever seen,” Kerri Talbot, the director of federal advocacy at the group Immigration Hub, said on a press call on Tuesday.
Under the GOP bill, minors who apply for asylum would face much stiffer consequences for filing an application found to be frivolous ― including permanent ineligibility for future protections.
The bill’s changes to asylum law alarmed immigration activists online, as well some on the right, including attorney and conservative writer Gabriel Malor.
Trump’s efforts to win over Democratic support on the bill ― which will require at least 60 votes to pass in the Senate ― hit even more trouble on Tuesday after the Supreme Court once again did not act on the administration’s effort to end DACA.
The move essentially left protections for Dreamers in place for at least the next several months ― giving Democrats less incentive to agree to Trump’s offer of protections to DACA recipients.
--- end HPO----

--- start NYT (w error) ----
WASHINGTON — President Trump, facing a growing public backlash over the partial government shutdown, shifted course on Saturday and offered Democrats a deal: temporary protections for roughly 700,000 young undocumented immigrants in exchange for $5.7 billion in funding for a wall along the southern border.
But the proposal, which Mr. Trump unveiled in a 13-minute address from the White House, appeared dead on arrival in the Capitol.
Speaker Nancy Pelosi rejected it even before Mr. Trump spoke, and Senator Chuck Schumer, the Democratic leader, denounced the offer as “not a compromise but more hostage taking.”
With the shutdown entering its fifth week and polls showing a majority of the public blaming Mr. Trump, the president’s advisers have been searching for an exit strategy.
Saturday’s speech grew out of talks that Vice President Mike Pence and the president’s son-in-law and senior adviser, Jared Kushner, have had in recent days with lawmakers including Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader.
The proposal was Mr. Trump’s first public offer to Democrats since the partial shutdown began nearly a month ago.
It came after an acrimonious week of tit-for-tat politics, in which Ms. Pelosi told the president he could not deliver his State of the Union address in the Capitol until the shutdown was over, and the president retaliated by grounding a plane that was supposed to take Ms. Pelosi on a fact-finding mission to Afghanistan.
In casting the plan as a compromise, the president sought to shift pressure to Democrats — who have repeatedly refused to give Mr. Trump any money for his border wall — to end the shutdown.
But Democrats continued to insist they will not negotiate with Mr. Trump over border security until the government reopens.
Over the course of his administration, Mr. Trump has repeatedly sought to curb both legal and illegal immigration.
He has revoked Temporary Protected Status, or T.P.S., which offers crucial protections for immigrants, for people from some Latin American and African countries.
And he has moved to rescind Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals, or DACA, an Obama-era program that shielded the young undocumented immigrants known as Dreamers from deportation.
In the deal he outlined on Saturday, Mr. Trump offered to restore T.P.S. protection for 300,000 people, and said he would allow 700,000 Dreamers to keep their protections for three more years in exchange for $5.7 billion for a border barrier.
“That is our plan,” Mr. Trump said.
“Border security, DACA, T.P.S. Many other things.
Straightforward, fair, reasonable and common sense with lots of compromise.”
The proposal, Mr. Trump added, was intended to “break the logjam and provide Congress with a path forward.”
The speech was the second time during the shutdown that the president addressed the nation about the immigration crisis.
But unlike his first address, a prime-time broadcast from the Oval Office that leaned heavily on dark messaging about the dangers of crime and illegal drugs flowing across the border, Mr. Trump seemed on Saturday to soften his tone.
He paired the address with his first naturalization ceremony at the White House, a move intended to underscore the idea that he supports legal immigration.
And his language was markedly different; instead of insisting on the “big beautiful wall” he promised during his 2016 campaign, Mr. Trump took care to use the word “barrier” as well — and seemed to pare back his vision for it.
Calling the wall “a powerful and beautifully designed see-through steel barrier on our southern border,” Mr. Trump said: “This is not a 2,000-mile concrete structure from sea to sea.
These are steel barriers in high priority locations.
Much of the border is already protected by natural barriers such as mountains and water.”
Mr. Trump noted that he had adopted some Democratic proposals on border security.
The president proposed $800 million for humanitarian assistance and $805 million for drug detection technology, in addition to funding for 2,750 more border agents and law enforcement officials and 75 new immigration judge teams.
In her talking points, issued to Democrats, Ms. Pelosi said her party favored “new drug, weapons and contraband scanning technology at official ports of entry,” and “filling the more than 3,000 vacancies for customs officers.”
Ms. Pelosi also intends to bring up legislation in the coming days that includes an additional $1 billion for border security, including $563 million for 75 new immigration judges and support staff.
Even so, Democrats roundly criticized the president’s plan.
They were particularly incensed that Mr. Trump’s offer extended protections to Dreamers and T.P.S. recipients that he himself revoked.
And they said the deal was a nonstarter because it did not offer any permanent protections for Dreamers.
“I think it’s simply more fake promises raising false hopes,” Senator Richard Blumenthal, Democrat of Connecticut, said.
“It will fool few Americans because it’s neither serious nor credible as a real remedy for Dreamers.”
Some on the right also pushed back, describing the proposal as amnesty.
James Carafano, a national security expert at the Heritage Foundation who worked on Mr. Trump’s transition, was among the critics.
“Amnesty encourages further illegal immigration, incentivizes the tragedy of human trafficking and undermines our citizens’ confidence in the rule of law,” he said.
Mr. Pence, briefing reporters after Mr. Trump’s remarks, said the speech reflected a painstaking process of listening to lawmakers, including rank-and-file Democrats who made it clear they believed that protections for DACA and T.P.S. recipients must be included in a border security deal.
And he pushed back forcefully against critics like Mr. Carafano who said the measure amounted to an unacceptable amnesty for undocumented immigrants.
“There is no pathway to citizenship in this proposal,” Mr. Pence said.
But that was one reason many Democrats considered it unacceptable.
Other senior administration officials made it clear that part of Mr. Trump’s strategy was to try to drive a wedge within the party between those who want to hold out for a much more generous solution and those who may feel enough political pressure to end the shutdown that they will feel obliged to support it.
Noting that Tuesday is the deadline for the government to reopen in time to prevent federal employees from going a second consecutive pay period without a check, Mick Mulvaney, the acting chief of staff, said Senate Democrats had a tricky decision to make.
(TN) He also noted that the president’s ability to declare a national emergency was “absolutely” still a tool available to Mr. Trump to find funds to build the wall if a legislative agreement could not be reached.
Now it will be up to Mr. McConnell to put legislation incorporating Mr. Trump’s proposal on the Senate floor.
Mr. McConnell — who has insisted he will not put any legislation on the floor unless the president will sign it — spoke to Mr. Trump, Mr. Kushner and Mr. Pence on Thursday night about finding a way forward.
Mr. McConnell told the president that before he could bring up legislation on the Senate floor, he needed a “public reassurance” that Mr. Trump would sign it, one person close to the talks said, speaking on the condition of anonymity to describe sensitive discussions.
The president’s proposal “strikes a fair compromise by incorporating priorities from both sides of the aisle,” Mr. McConnell said in a statement after Mr. Trump’s speech.
If Mr. McConnell does indeed put a bill on the floor, as the president said he would, Senate Democrats will have to decide whether to block it or let it come up for a vote.
Despite Democrats’ vow to reject the measure, it could create an opening for negotiations between the two sides.
The shutdown stalemate is creating increasing nervousness on Capitol Hill, especially among Republicans seeking re-election in Democratic-leaning states.
One of them, Senator Susan Collins of Maine, is among only a handful of Republicans who have broken with the president and called for the government to reopen without a border security deal.
On Saturday, she praised the president, saying she hoped that Mr. Trump’s offer would “lead to constructive debate that will end this impasse.”
White House aides and allies of Mr. Trump said Saturday that Mr. Trump succeeded in ratcheting up the political pressure on Ms. Pelosi, especially if the Senate succeeded in passing a bill.
“The Democrats’ talking points have been that the president is solely responsible for shutting down the government,” Marc Short, the former White House legislative director, said.
“This puts more onus on them to come back and say why this proposal is insufficient.”
But one reason Democrats are so leery of the deal is that they have been down this road with the president before.
Last year, Mr. Trump and Mr. Schumer negotiated $25 billion in wall money for a pathway to citizenship for the Dreamers.
But that deal fell apart when hard-line White House advisers persuaded the president to back away.
The standoff over the shutdown, some former aides noted, was the first time Mr. Trump has had to engage in meaningful, high-stakes negotiations.
But even that has come as a last resort, in what some have likened to negotiating out of desperation after failing to score political points.
--- end NYT (w error) ----