--- start HPO----
WASHINGTON -- President Barack Obama and House Speaker John Boehner (R-Ohio) met for nearly an hour on Thursday evening in their latest attempt to break the impasse on impending tax hikes and spending cuts.
True to form, neither said much of anything about what was discussed.
Shortly after the meeting ended, both camps put out identical, banal statements.
"The President and Speaker had a frank meeting in the Oval Office tonight," said the statements.
"It lasted approximately 50 minutes.
There will be no further readout of the meeting, but lines of communication remain open."
Boehner was back at the Capitol soon afterward, but said nothing new as he passed reporters eager for a readout.
“Nice to see all of you,” he said as he kept walking, CNN’s Deirdre Walsh tweeted.
Boehner is heading back to Ohio for the weekend.
A handful of others attended the meeting.
Timothy Geithner, the treasury secretary, and Rob Nabors, director of the White House Office of Legislative Affairs, joined Obama, a White House aide confirmed.
Boehner’s chief of staff, Mike Sommers, and his policy director, Brett Loper, were also in attendance.
Thursday night’s meeting marks the second time in a week the president and House speaker have met in person, and comes after at least two phone calls in recent days.
The continued dialogue provides some rays of hope to a negotiating process that, in recent days, has shown very little progress.
Boehner has refused to budge from his refusal to consider raising tax rates on top earners while arguing that heavy spending cuts are needed.
The White House, in contrast, has accused House Republican leadership of being deliberately vague on cuts, while insisting that no deal will end up getting the president's signature without a raising of tax rates.
With the year-end deadline for all rates to expire and $1 trillion in spending cuts to kick in, the prospect of actually failing to find agreement is coming into focus.
A top Senate Democratic aide told the Huffington Post on Thursday that Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.) told his caucus that finalizing a deal by Christmas was now basically impossible.
Boehner, meanwhile, told lawmakers earlier Thursday not to make plans for Christmas, signaling that there may not realistically be a final deal until the very end of the month.
White House Press Secretary Jay Carney wouldn’t say whether Obama is also bracing for dragged out negotiations
“I can’t speculate about the time frame,” Carney said at his daily briefing.
“What the president is interested in is working with Congress to achieve a deal that avoids the fiscal cliff and, beyond that, addresses our long-term fiscal challenges in a balanced way.
He wants to makes sure, first and foremost, that the middle class does not have their taxes go up on January 1st.”
--- end HPO----

--- start NYT----
WASHINGTON — With just three weeks left for lawmakers to avert a fiscal crisis, President Obama and Speaker John A. Boehner met privately at the White House on Sunday as a top Republican senator suggested that his party should perhaps accede to Mr. Obama’s demand to raise the top tax rates so that the attention can shift to making serious cuts in benefit programs like Medicare and Medicaid.
Administration officials would not offer details of the discussion between Mr. Obama and Mr. Boehner.
But the disclosure of the meeting indicated that private discussions continue in the face of Republican leaders’ public statements deploring the lack of progress and the president’s refusal so far to specify the sort of deep, long-term reductions in spending for social programs that they insist upon as a condition of their support for raising taxes on high earners.
The White House and Mr. Boehner’s office issued identical statements afterward that said “the lines of communication remain open.”
The meeting was the first face-to-face negotiation between the president and the speaker since a session three weeks ago, when they were joined by the House Democratic leader, Nancy Pelosi of California; the Senate Democratic leader, Harry Reid of Nevada; and the Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky.
They were the first one-on-one deficit talks between Mr. Obama and Mr. Boehner since the summer of 2011, when the search for a “grand bargain” on taxes and spending ultimately failed.
The latest meeting gave rise to renewed optimism that a deal could be reached before the end of the month.
“My guess is still that we will reach a deal, but I do not think that anything is either certain or imminent,” Representative Tom Cole, an Oklahoma Republican and Boehner lieutenant, said Sunday night.
“If they reach a deal, I suspect the majority of our conference will support the speaker.
I hope the president can command equal support on his side of the aisle.”
Any optimism is a step forward from Friday, when Mr. Boehner told reporters that he did not have a progress report because there was “no progress to report.”
But the ups and downs of the search for a deal to avert a fiscal crisis have been in large measure for public consumption.
Between public statements and news conferences, the staffs of the president and the speaker have been in close contact.
Just hours before the White House meeting, Senator Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee, said on “Fox News Sunday” that a small but growing group of Republicans had begun considering acquiescing on tax rates so that the negotiations could shift to entitlement programs.
Mr. Corker, a member of the Banking Committee who had presented a deficit-reduction plan of his own, said that if Republicans gave in to the president’s chief demand, then “all of a sudden the shift goes back to entitlements, and maybe it puts us in a place where we actually can do something that really saves the nation.”
Republicans have been insisting that the Obama administration agree to substantial savings in entitlement programs as the two sides negotiate how to narrow the country’s huge deficits.
But Mr. Corker is part of a group of Republicans who say the party will ultimately have to yield to the Obama demand of higher tax rates for top earners, potentially back to the levels that prevailed under President Bill Clinton.
That group of Republicans, Mr. Corker said on Fox, was beginning to realize “that we don’t have a lot of cards as it relates to the tax issue before year end” — but that a tax-rate concession could be converted, jujitsu style, into a tactical advantage.
Mr. Corker’s comments came as central figures on network news programs mixed cautious words of optimism over the negotiations between the White House and Congressional Republicans with dire warnings about what a failure to act might bring.
Christine Lagarde, the managing director of the International Monetary Fund, warned that such a failure was the gravest threat now facing the still-fragile United States economy — greater than the European debt crisis or any uncertainty in China.
“It would result in the stock market really taking a hit,” Ms. Lagarde said on the CNN program “State of the Union.”
The overall result could be zero growth next year, not the 2.1 percent growth rate projected by the I.M.F.
She called for a “balanced” agreement of both revenue increases and spending cuts.
That is a word Mr. Obama has often used to describe his preferred outcome.
Ms. Lagarde offered a tentative prediction that what she called American “pragmatism” would prevail and avert the worst outcome.
--- end NYT----

--- start FOX (w error) ----
President Obama was heading to Detroit Monday afternoon to continue campaigning for tax hikes on top earners -- a day after a face-to-face meeting with House Speaker John Boehner that offered slight hope the two could be making progress toward a deal.
The president and the speaker met Sunday afternoon at the White House for the first time in weeks.
It came after Boehner publicly chided Obama on Friday for the lack of progress to date, accusing the president of having "wasted another week."
Both sides were tightlipped about the surprise Sunday afternoon meeting.
But instead of emerging from the talks complaining about each other, as was the case following phone calls last week, each side released an identical statement.
"This afternoon, the President and Speaker Boehner met at the White House to discuss efforts to resolve the fiscal cliff.
We're not reading out details of the conversation, but the lines of communication remain open," the statement released by each office said.
Lawmakers and the White House have three weeks to reach a deal, before a potentially crippling set of tax hikes and spending cuts takes effect.
(TN) Boehner last week put a counter-proposal on the table that included $800 billion in revenue increases over the next decade.
While Boehner cast that as a significant concession, Obama said it didn't go far enough because it didn't include an increase in tax rates for the top 2 percent.
Boehner, though, is facing some pressure from Republicans to give a little bit more.
The speaker is effectively caught between two competing wings of the Republican Party.
Some say Congress should not raise any taxes, and were disappointed he went so far as to put any revenue on the table.
However, a growing number of Republicans are suggesting the party should give Obama what he wants on tax rates -- and focus instead on winning entitlement cuts once that is cleared away.
Sen. Bob Corker, R-Tenn., became the latest Republican to open the door to tax rate hikes during an interview on "Fox News Sunday."
"There is a growing group of folks that are looking at this and realizing that we don't have a lot of cards as it relates to the tax issue, before year-end.
I mean, we have one house, that's it," Corker said.
Corker suggested that Republicans instead focus on extracting entitlement cuts as part of the debt-ceiling negotiations.
"Republicans know that they have the debt ceiling that's coming up right around the corner, and the leverage is going to shift, as soon as we get beyond this issue," Corker said on "Fox News Sunday."
"The leverage is going to shift to our side, where hopefully we'll do the same thing we did last time."
Corker said that if the president wants to raise the debt limit by $2 trillion, Republicans should press for $2 trillion in spending cuts.
That prospect is sure to infuriate the White House.
After the bruising debt-ceiling fight from 2011, Obama recently warned that he will not "play that game" again.
"We've got to break that habit before it starts," the president said.
The president argues that fights over the debt ceiling merely shake global confidence in the country's ability to pay its bills, and as part of talks over the looming fiscal crisis has called for a de facto permanent increase in the debt limit.
It's unclear whether Obama might drop that demand if he gets what he wants on tax rates.
His campaign-style visit to Detroit, though, threatens to muddy the waters on talks.
Rep. Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif., the No. 3 Republican in the House, suggested Sunday that the president's itinerary has left Republicans to negotiate with themselves.
"He's been to Pennsylvania. Tomorrow he is going to Detroit.
It's now time to govern. The election is over," he said on NBC's "Meet the Press."
Democratic Illinois Sen. Dick Durbin countered that Obama "is a phone call away and you know it."
--- end FOX (w error) ----