--- start HPO----
Donald Trump Jr. Messaged With WikiLeaks During Presidential Campaign
President Donald Trump’s oldest son, Donald Trump Jr., communicated with WikiLeaks over Twitter direct message during the 2016 presidential race, according to a report in The Atlantic published Monday.
According to messages obtained by The Atlantic’s Julia Ioffe, Trump Jr. messaged with the WikiLeaks account between September 2016 and July 2017.
The messages were given to congressional investigators probing whether Trump’s presidential campaign colluded with Russian officials to influence the outcome of the 2016 election.
(Federal officials believe WikiLeaks published material, including emails from the Democratic National Committee’s servers, that had been obtained via Russian hackers.)
Trump Jr. later on Monday confirmed his correspondence with WikiLeaks, posting several screenshots of the Twitter messages.
The messages are mostly from WikiLeaks to the president’s son, but Trump Jr. did occasionally respond to the messages.
The organization made multiple requests of Trump Jr., asking him to provide his father’s tax returns and suggesting the candidate refuse to concede if he lost the election to Democratic opponent Hillary Clinton.
(Trump Jr. didn’t respond to either message.)
On one occasion, Trump Jr. tweeted a link to a cache of leaked emails after the WikiLeaks account messaged it to him.
On another, WikiLeaks wrote it was happy to see the elder Trump mentioning the group on the campaign trail.
Moments later, Trump tweeted about the organization.
After Trump won the election, Wikileaks suggested that Trump should prod Australia to appoint the site’s founder, Julian Assange, ambassador to the United States.
The White House didn’t immediately respond to a HuffPost request for comment on the report.
In a statement to The Atlantic, Trump Jr.’s attorney, Alan Futerfas, said, “We can say with confidence that we have no concerns about these documents and any questions raised about them have been easily answered in the appropriate forum.”
Vice President Mike Pence, who in an Oct. 14, 2016, interview with Fox News claimed the campaign had not been in contact with WikiLeaks, said in a statement late Monday that he had not known about Trump Jr.’s messages.
“The vice president was never aware of anyone associated with the campaign being in contact with WikiLeaks,” said Pence press secretary Alyssa Farah.
“He first learned of this news from a published report earlier tonight.”
Weeks before the election, asked if the campaign was “in cahoots” with WikiLeaks, Pence denied it.
“Nothing could be further from the truth,” he said.
“I think all of us have, you know, have had concerns about WikiLeaks over the years, and it’s just a reality of American life today, and of life in the wider world.”
Trump Jr. became embroiled in the Russia investigation after it was revealed he and other campaign officials met with a Kremlin-backed attorney in June 2016 who had promised damaging information about Clinton.
Leaked emails published by The New York Times show Trump Jr. arranged the meeting at Trump Tower in New York.
“To the extent they had information concerning the fitness, character or qualifications of a presidential candidate, I believed that I should at least hear them out,” Trump Jr. said in a statement to the Senate Judiciary Committee, one of the congressional committees probing the campaign’s Russia ties, in September.
He said the meeting did not lead to anything, and has denied colluding with the Russian government.
Trump Jr. is expected to publicly testify before the Senate Judiciary Committee, according to the panel’s top Democrat, Sen. Dianne Feinstein of California.
--- end HPO----

--- start NYT----
Donald Trump Jr. Communicated With WikiLeaks During Campaign
WASHINGTON — Donald Trump Jr. had multiple online conversations during the 2016 presidential campaign with WikiLeaks, the anti-secrecy group that last year released a hacked trove of Democrats’ emails, according to four congressional officials.
Mr. Trump, the president’s son, in recent weeks handed over Twitter messages he exchanged with WikiLeaks to several congressional committees investigating Russia’s attempts to disrupt the election, according to the officials.
In September, Mr. Trump acknowledged in a closed-door interview with the Senate Judiciary Committee that he had corresponded with the group during the campaign, the officials said.
The correspondence, which began weeks before the Nov. 8, 2016, election and continued through much of this year, is the second time it has been publicly revealed that Mr. Trump communicated with people and organizations with ties to the Russian government who were trying to undermine the presidential campaign of Hillary Clinton.
In July, The New York Times reported that Mr. Trump met with Russians in June 2016 who said they had damaging information on Mrs. Clinton, and that the information was part of the Russian government’s support for Mr. Trump.
Mr. Trump on Monday night releasedseveralscreen shots of his messages with WikiLeaks.
His lawyer, Alan S. Futerfas, said the documents were “selectively leaked” among the thousands that have been turned over to congressional investigators.
“We can say with confidence that we have no concerns about these documents and any questions raised about them have been easily answered in the appropriate forum,” Mr. Futerfas said in a statement.
By publishing thousands of hacked emails, American intelligence agencies believe WikiLeaks was acting as a conduit for Russian operatives.
The Twitter messages were first reported by The Atlantic, which published copies of the correspondence.
“Hiya, it’d be great if you guys could comment on/push this story,” WikiLeaks said in a message to Mr. Trump on Oct. 3, 2016, that included a quote from Mrs. Clinton in which she said she wanted to “just drone” Julian Assange, the WikiLeaks founder.
“Already did that earlier today,” Mr. Trump said in response.
“It’s amazing what she can get away with.”
In a message a week later, WikiLeaks asked Mr. Trump to have his father tweet a link to a site where users could search through hacked emails from Democrats.
“There’s many great stories the press are missing and we’re sure some of your follows will find it,” WikiLeaks said, adding that the group had just released more emails stolen from Mrs. Clinton’s campaign chairman, John D. Podesta.
Mr. Trump did not respond.
Fifteen minutes later, however, his father tweeted: “Very little pick-up by the dishonest media of incredible information provided by WikiLeaks.
So dishonest! Rigged system!”
Mr. Assange said on Twitter that he could not confirm whether the group had corresponded with Mr. Trump.
“WikiLeaks loves its pending publications and ignores those who ask for details,” Mr. Assange said, adding that thousands of people had asked the group about the emails it had published.
Mark Warner, the top Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee, said the messages, if real, are “one more example of Russians, Russian agents — in this case WikiLeaks — reaching out to senior officials in the Trump Organization or Trump campaign.”
The last message Mr. Trump received from WikiLeaks was in July, shortly after The Times reported that he had corresponded with the Russians promising “dirt” on Mrs. Clinton.
“Hi Don.
Sorry to hear about your problems,” WikiLeaks said.
“We have an idea that may help a little.
We are VERY interested in confidentially obtaining and publishing a copy of the email(s) cited in the New York Times today.”
Shortly thereafter, Mr. Trump released the emails himself.
--- end NYT----

--- start FOX (w error) ----
President Trump’s eldest son, Donald Trump Jr., corresponded with WikiLeaks before the 2016 presidential election, a dialogue of which the president’s son confirmed Monday night on Twitter.
In a series of tweets, Trump Jr. produced “the entire chain of messages with @wikileaks (with my whopping 3 responses) which one of the congressional committees has chosen to selectively leak.
How ironic!”
The Atlantic first reported on Monday that Trump Jr. received a private message from the WikiLeaks Twitter account on September 20, 2016 — a message shown in the tweets produced by the president’s son.
“A PAC run anti-Trump site putintrump.org is about to launch,” WikiLeaks wrote.
“The PAC is a recycled pro-Iraq war PAC.
We have guessed the password.
It is ‘putintrump.’ See ‘About’ for who is behind it.
Any comments?”
Trump Jr. replied, “Off the record I don’t know who that is, but I’ll ask around.
Thanks.”
In a separate October 2016 exchange, WikiLeaks urged Trump Jr. to “comment on/push this story” about then-Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton wanting to “just drone” Julian Assange, the Wikileaks founder.
“Already did that earlier today,” Trump Jr. later replied.
“It’s amazing what she can get away with.”
The messages obtained by The Atlantic were turned over to investigators by Trump Jr.’s attorneys.
The House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence had access to the documents, a source told Fox News.
“Over the last several months, we have worked cooperatively with each of the committees and have voluntarily turned over thousands of documents in response to their requests,” Alan Futerfas, an attorney for Trump Jr., said in a statement.
“Putting aside the question as to why or by whom such documents, provided to Congress under promises of confidentiality, have been selectively leaked, we can say with confidence that we have no concerns about these documents and any questions raised about them have been easily answered in the appropriate forum.”
According to the report, the messages are part of a long correspondence between WikiLeaks and Trump Jr., though Trump Jr. seemed to ignore many of the messages, including some which urged him to release “one or more of your father’s tax returns.”
President Trump’s attorney Ty Cobb told Fox News on Monday that he was not aware that Donald Trump Jr.’s attorneys provided these documents to congressional investigators, but said there is likely no legal issue, from what he knows of the documents.
Wikileaks publisher Julian Assange tweeted about the report on Monday, saying that the organization couldn’t “confirm” the messages with Trump Jr.
Wikileaks “does not keep such records and the Atlantic’s presentation is edited and clearly does not have the full context,” Assange wrote.
“WikiLeaks loves its pending publications and ignores those who ask for details,” Assange continued.
“Trump Jr. was rebuffed just like Cambridge Analytica.
(TN) In both cases WikiLeaks had publicly teased the publications.
Thousands of people asked about them.
WikiLeaks can be very effective at convincing even high profile people that it is their interest to promote links to its publications.
“WikiLeaks has such chutzpah that it allegedly tried to convince Trump Jr to leak his father’s tax returns & his own “Russian lawyer meeting” emails (he did),” Assange wrote.
“WikiLeaks appears to beguile some people into transparency by convincing them that it is in their interest.”
Assange also claimed that the “full text of alleged DMs with context provides a different reading, unsurprisingly.”
This is not the first time that Trump Jr. has been in the spotlight, and has had his actions brought into question amid the larger probe into Russian meddling and potential collusion with Trump campaign associates in the 2016 presidential election.
In June 2016, Trump Jr. accepted a now-highly scrutinized meeting with Russian attorney Natalia Veselnitskaya, after he allegedly was promised “dirt” on Hillary Clinton.
The meeting was brokered by music publicist Rob Goldstone who promised the campaign information.
Jared Kushner and Paul Manafort, who was charged last month in Special Counsel Robert Mueller’s probe into Russian collusion, also attended the meeting.
Fox News’ Matt Richardson and John Roberts contributed to this report.
--- end FOX (w error) ----