--- start HPO----
President Donald Trump said he’s considering an executive order to remove the right to citizenship for babies born in the U.S. to parents who aren’t citizens ― a right enshrined in the 14th Amendment that could likely be changed only through a constitutional amendment.
Trump said in an interview with “Axios on HBO” taped Monday that he could execute the change via executive order.
“It was always told to me that you needed a constitutional amendment.
Guess what? You don’t,” Trump said.
“You can definitely do it with an act of Congress.
But now they’re saying I can do it just with an executive order.”
He said the right awarded to babies born as birthright Americans is “ridiculous” and that the system “has to end.”
Trump also falsely stated that the U.S. is “the only country in the world” that offers citizenship to those born here.
More than 30 nations, including Canada and Mexico, have similar policies.
It’s not clear what the executive order would look like or when it would be proposed ― if Trump follows through at all, considering his tendency for pre-election bluster and warnings he has received from fellow Republicans, including House Speaker Paul Ryan (Wis.), who have said doing so would be outside the bounds the president’s authority.
All babies born in the U.S. are American citizens under the Constitution’s 14th Amendment, which cannot be changed by presidential order.
Changing that policy would dramatically reshape the U.S. ― effectively punishing the children of undocumented immigrants, whom Trump has vowed to remove from the country.
Even if he doesn’t follow through or succeed, though, Trump’s vow to try aligns with other messaging and actions attacking undocumented immigrants ahead of the midterm elections next Tuesday.
An executive order challenging birthright citizenship would ensure a legal battle, in which most experts think the president would fail.
The Supreme Court ruled in 1898’s U.S. v. Wong Kim Ark that a child born in the U.S. to immigrant parents was a citizen under the 14th Amendment.
“The president cannot erase the Constitution with an executive order, and the 14th Amendment’s citizenship guarantee is clear,” said Omar Jadwat, director of the ACLU’s Immigrants’ Rights Project.
“This is a transparent and blatantly unconstitutional attempt to sow division and fan the flames of anti-immigrant hatred in the days ahead of the midterms.”
Some Republicans ― including Ryan ― quickly shot down Trump’s idea.
“You cannot end birthright citizenship with an executive order,” the House speaker said Tuesday on WVLK Radio, according to Bloomberg News reporter Erik Wasson.
Rep. Carlos Curbelo (R-Fla.) criticized the president’s statement, calling instead for immigration reform “that makes our country more secure and reaffirms our wonderful tradition as a nation of immigrants.”
Another Republican, Rep. Justin Amash of Michigan, also tweeted that such an executive order would not be possible.
The are some experts who disagree.
Axios cited John Eastman, a constitutional law professor at Chapman University and director of The Claremont Institute’s Center for Constitutional Jurisprudence, who said the amendment has been misapplied and was not intended to apply to every person born in the U.S. regardless of parentage.
Sen. Lindsey Graham (R-S.C.) announced Tuesday that he would introduce legislation “along the same lines as the proposed executive order from President Trump” to end birthright citizenship, a policy change he has supported for years.
It’s unclear what his legislation would look like ― and he has previously suggested such a change would require a constitutional amendment.
“This policy is a magnet for illegal immigration, out of the mainstream of the developed world, and needs to come to an end,” Graham said in a statement on Tuesday.
Trump has long supported ending birthright citizenship, recommending in 2015 on the campaign trail that the country “start a process” to scrap it.
“I don’t think they have American citizenship and if you speak to some very, very good lawyers — and I know some will disagree — but many of them agree with me and you’re going to find they do not have American citizenship.
Our country is going to hell,” Trump said then in an interview with CNN.
The president has lasered in on immigration ahead of next week’s midterm elections, stoking fear about the caravan of migrants heading toward the U.S.-Mexico border from Central America.
He has falsely claimed the caravan is stocked with criminals, gang members and Middle Eastern terrorists, and has threatened to cut off aid to Honduras, El Salvador and Guatemala, the countries where most of the migrants hail from.
He deployed 5,200 active-duty troops to the border on Monday in what officials of his administration described as a necessary national security measure.
--- end HPO----

--- start NYT----
President Trump said he was preparing an executive order that would nullify the long-accepted constitutional guarantee of birthright citizenship in the United States, his latest attention-grabbing maneuver days before midterm congressional elections as he has sought to activate his base by vowing to clamp down on immigrants and immigration.
“We’re the only country in the world where a person comes in and has a baby, and the baby is essentially a citizen of the United States for 85 years, with all of those benefits,” Mr. Trump told Axios during an interview that was released in part on Tuesday, making a false claim.
“It’s ridiculous. It’s ridiculous. And it has to end.”
In fact, at least 30 other countries, including Canada, Mexico and many others in the Western Hemisphere, grant automatic birthright citizenship, according to a study by the Center for Immigration Studies, an organization that supports restricting immigration and whose work Mr. Trump’s advisers often cite.
But Mr. Trump’s plan met with swift pushback from some even in his own party on Tuesday.
House Speaker Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, who is retiring, said in an interview that the president “obviously” cannot eviscerate birthright citizenship by executive order.
“You obviously cannot do that,” Ryan told WVLK, a radio station in Lexington, Ky.
“I’m a believer in following the plain text of the Constitution, and I think in this case, the 14th Amendment is pretty clear, and that would involve a very, very lengthy constitutional process.”
Mr. Ryan compared the idea of doing so to Barack Obama’s 2012 action to grant work permits and deportation reprieves to some undocumented immigrants brought to the United States as children, which Republicans, including Mr. Trump, vociferously protested as a naked abuse of presidential power.
Doing away with birthright citizenship for the children of undocumented immigrants was an idea Mr. Trump pitched as a presidential candidate, but there is no clear indication that he would be able to do so unilaterally, and attempting to would be certain to prompt legal challenges.
The consensus among legal scholars is that he cannot, but Mr. Trump and his allies are eager to test it in the Supreme Court.
“We all cherish the language of the 14th Amendment, but the Supreme Court of the United States has never ruled on whether the language of the 14th Amendment — ’subject to the jurisdiction thereof’ — applies specifically to people who are in the country illegally,” Vice President Mike Pence told Politico in an interview on Tuesday, several hours after Mr. Trump’s comments were reported.
It is likewise unknown how serious Mr. Trump is about taking the action.
In recent days, with the approach of the midterm balloting in which Republican control of Congress is at risk, he has sought to appeal to voters by making other dramatic claims that appear to have no chance of materializing, such as imminent action to grant a 10 percent tax cut for the middle class.
To accomplish the idea he floated on Tuesday, Mr. Trump would have to find a way around the 14th Amendment to the Constitution, which states, “All persons born or naturalized in the United States, and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the State wherein they reside.”
The amendment means that any child born in the United States is considered a citizen.
Amendments to the Constitution cannot be overridden by presidential action — they can be changed or undone only by overwhelming majorities in Congress or the states, with a two-thirds vote of both houses of Congress or through a constitutional convention called for by two-thirds of state legislatures.
Some conservatives have long made the argument that the 14th Amendment was meant to apply only to citizens and legal permanent residents, not immigrants who are present in the country without authorization.
In an opinion piece in The Washington Post this year, Michael Anton, a former spokesman for Mr. Trump’s National Security Council, said birthright citizenship was based on a misreading of the amendment, and of an 1898 Supreme Court ruling that he argued pertained only to the children of legal residents.
“The notion that simply being born within the geographical limits of the United States automatically confers U.S. citizenship is an absurdity — historically, constitutionally, philosophically and practically,” Mr. Anton wrote in July.
“An executive order could specify to federal agencies that the children of noncitizens are not citizens.”
Mr. Trump told Axios that while he initially believed he needed a constitutional amendment or action by Congress to make the change, the White House Counsel’s Office has advised him otherwise.
“Now they’re saying I can do it just with an executive order,” Mr. Trump said.
The White House did not immediately respond to requests for clarification of the legal grounds the president’s lawyers have given him for validating such a move.
His discussion of the idea comes after the administration announced it was streaming more than 5,000 active-duty troops to the southern border, part of an election-season rash of executive action Mr. Trump has undertaken as he works to energize his anti-immigrant base.
It also follows action by the Trump administration to try to discourage legal immigrants from using public benefits through a new federal rule that would deny green card status to people who use social safety net services, like food assistance and Medicaid.
The proposal provoked outrage among civil rights groups, a response that Mr. Trump’s advisers have argued privately is a central objective of many of the president’s most aggressive proposals on immigration and other matters.
Jess Morales Rocketto, the chairwoman of Families Belong Together, an immigrant advocacy group, called the idea “ethnic cleansing.”
Kristen Clarke, the president and executive director of the Lawyers’ Committee for Civil Rights Under Law, called the idea illegal and offensive.
“Aside from being unconstitutional, such an executive order would exacerbate racial tensions, exploit fears and drive further polarization across the country at a moment that calls for the promotion of unity and inclusion,” Ms. Clarke said in a statement.
“The letter and spirit of the Fourteenth Amendment places those born in this country on equal footing, and an executive order that strips away citizenship would create a permanent group of second-class citizens and invite litigation.”
Some Republicans also rejected Mr. Trump’s suggestion, an indication of the political risks for the party that attend the president’s bid to stoke anti-immigrant sentiment in advance of next Tuesday’s voting.
“The President is wrong to end #BirthrightCitizenship,” Bob Hugin, a Republican candidate for Senate in New Jersey, said in a Twitter post.
“We’re a nation of immigrants made better by the diversity of its people, especially in NJ.
We need compassionate comprehensive immigration reform now.”
A 1898 Supreme Court decision held that Wong Kim Ark, who was born in San Francisco to Chinese parents residing in the United States, was a citizen because of his birth on American soil.
Mr. Anton argued in The Post that because his parents were legal residents, the ruling should not be read as an affirmation of the status of children of undocumented immigrants.
But immigration advocates argue that scrapping the concept of birthright citizenship would do away with a vital principle, and would be counterproductive to the stated goals of those who, like Mr. Trump, rail routinely against illegal immigration.
According to a study by the Migration Policy Institute, a nonpartisan group, if citizenship were denied to every child with at least one unauthorized parent, the unauthorized population in the United States would reach 24 million by 2050 — more than double what it is now.
Stephen Legomsky, a Washington University School of Law professor and former chief counsel for U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, said the 14th Amendment’s application to the children of undocumented immigrants was a matter of pure common sense.
“Like anyone else, native-born Americans, whoever their parents are, can be charged with crimes if they disobey U.S. law,” Mr. Legomsky said.
“How would this be possible if the U.S. had no jurisdiction over them?”
--- end NYT----

--- start FOX (w error) ----
President Trump vowed Wednesday that birthright citizenship will end “one way or the other,” a day after it emerged he was considering killing the policy by executive order -- a development that sparked disagreement among Republicans and condemnation from Democrats.
“So-called Birthright Citizenship, which costs our Country billions of dollars and is very unfair to our citizens, will be ended one way or the other,” he tweeted. 
"It is not covered by the 14th Amendment because of the words 'subject to the jurisdiction thereof.'"
He also took aim at former Senate Democratic Leader Harry Reid, who he said “was right in 1993, before he and the Democrats went insane and started with the Open Borders (which brings massive crime) ‘stuff.’”
He was referring to comments unearthed from 1993 in which Reid said that "no sane country" would award citizenship to children of illegal immigrants born on its soil and promoted legislation to end the practice.
"If making it easy to be an illegal alien isn't enough, how about offering a reward for being an illegal immigrant? 
No sane country would do that, right?" Reid said. 
"Guess again. 
If you break our laws by entering this country without permission and give birth to a child, we reward that child with U.S. citizenship and guarantee a full access to all public and social services this society provides."
Reid later apologized for his stance and reversed it in 1999.
But the comments helped Trump make his controversial case, after his push first emerged in an interview with “Axios on HBO”. 
He said he wants to use an executive order to end the practice by which children born in the U.S. of non-citizen or illegal immigrant parents are immediately a citizen.
“How ridiculous, we’re the only country in the world where a person comes in, has a baby, and the baby is essentially a citizen of the United States for 85 years with all of those benefits,” Trump said.
The U.S. is not the only country to grant birthright citizenship, with Canada and a number of Latin American countries also doing so, but the issue has long been a contentious one in the U.S. -- particularly for those seeking to restrict illegal immigration into the U.S.
The 14th Amendment states that “all persons born or naturalized in the United States and subject to the jurisdiction thereof, are citizens of the United States and of the State wherein they reside.” 
Critics of birthright citizenship say that the amendment was never intended to apply to children of two non-citizens -- and particularly those who have come to the country illegally.
Critics say the policy encourages illegal immigrants to come to the country, give birth and then try to claim residency themselves as a result.
(TN) But many scholars counter that it would take a constitutional amendment to change the policy. 
And the announcement Tuesday was met with a mixed reception by lawmakers in Congress, particularly the idea that Trump might use an executive order to impose such a significant immigration change -- something Republicans blasted former President Barack Obama for doing with the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) policy.
Speaker Paul Ryan, R-Wis., said in an interview with WVLK that the 14th Amendment is “pretty clear” and said that “you cannot end birthright citizenship with an executive order.” 
Senate Judiciary Chairman Chuck Grassley, R-Iowa, said he will "closely review" the proposed executive order, but said that "as a general matter, this is an issue that Congress should take the lead to carefully consider and debate."
Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., announced he will be introducing legislation “to deal with the issue of birthright citizenship for children of illegal immigrants” and said it was a “magnet for illegal immigration in modern times.”
On Wednesday, Trump appeared to shift stance somewhat by avoiding saying it would be ended by executive order, while acknowledging the matter “will be settled by the United States Supreme Court.”
Democrats appeared united in condemnation against Trump’s move this week. 
In a Tuesday appearance on "The Late Show with Stephen Colbert," House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., said the Axios interview didn't surprise her.
"This is just more of the same of what he's been saying," she said, referring to Trump's remarks on immigration. 
"What he was saying today has no relationship to what his authority is, but that's of course not unusual."
--- end FOX (w error) ----