--- start FOX----
Mitt Romney joined several other Republicans Tuesday in calling on Missouri Rep. Todd Akin to give up his bid for Senate over his controversial comments on rape, as the Republican congressman continued to hold his ground and vowed to stay in the race.
Romney added his voice after five past and present Missouri Republican senators urged Akin to step aside.
In a statement released Tuesday afternoon, they said his presence does not serve "the national interest."
"The issues at stake are too big, and this election is simply too important.
The right decision is to step aside," they said.
The statement came from Missouri Sen. Roy Blunt, and former Sens. John Ashcroft, Kit Bond, John Danforth and Jim Talent
Romney released a statement late Tuesday saying: "As I said yesterday, Todd Akin's comments were offensive and wrong and he should very seriously consider what course would be in the best interest of our country.
Today, his fellow Missourians urged him to step aside, and I think he should accept their counsel and exit the Senate race."
Akin, though, told Fox News host Mike Huckabee on his radio show Tuesday afternoon that he's staying in.
"I believe that we can win this," Akin said, citing a "tremendous outpouring of support" from individual donors even as party heavyweights freeze him out.
The Republican congressman is facing a 5 p.m. deadline to withdraw -- after that, he would need a court order to have his name removed from the ballot.
But Akin rebuffed calls late Monday to step aside and let another Republican candidate take his place.
Instead, his campaign released a new ad in which Akin looks into the camera and addresses the controversy surrounding his remarks.
"Rape is an evil act.
I used the wrong words in the wrong way and for that I apologize," he said in the ad.
"As the father of two daughters, I want tough justice for predators.
I have a compassionate heart for the victims of sexual assault. And I pray for them.
The fact is, rape can lead to pregnancy.
The truth is, rape has many victims.
"The mistake I made was in the words I said, not in the heart I hold.
I ask for your forgiveness," he said.
The video was released after Akin canceled a scheduled television interview Monday night.
Akin's ad, and claims Monday that he's "going to stay in," defied Republican Party leaders who are nervous the controversy could imperil their chances of taking control of the Senate after the November elections.
Akin is challenging Democratic Missouri Sen. Claire McCaskill in a race considered key to a GOP Senate majority come 2013.
A source within the National Republican Senatorial Committee told Fox News that Sen. John Cornyn, head of the Senate GOP campaign arm, already has told Akin that if he stays in the race, the $5 million set aside for the Missouri race will be withdrawn.
Cornyn, according to the source, told him the party is concerned his presence in the race could hurt Republicans' chances of winning the Senate majority.
Akin made the remarks in an interview with Fox affiliate KTVI.
He claimed a woman's body can typically fend off pregnancy during a "legitimate rape," as he argued against allowing abortions in cases of rape, claiming such pregnancies are uncommon in the first place.
"It seems to me first of all, from what I understand from doctors, that's really rare," Akin told KTVI.
"If it's a legitimate rape, the female body has ways to try to shut that whole thing down."
Top Senate leaders including Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell have condemned Akin's comments.
"What he said is just flat wrong in addition to being wildly offensive to any victim of sexual abuse," McConnell said.
"Although Rep. Akin has apologized, I believe he should take time with his family to consider whether this statement will prevent him from effectively representing our party in this critical election."
Republican Sen. Scott Brown, who's in a tough race against Democrat Elizabeth Warren in Massachusetts, was the first Republican senator to call on Akin to withdraw from the race.
Akin apologized for his remarks Monday.
He tweeted Monday afternoon: "I am in this race to win."
--- end FOX----

--- start NYT----
HOUSTON — The decision by Republican convention delegates to oppose abortion without explicit exceptions for rape and incest poses a tricky political challenge for Mitt Romney as he prepares to accept the presidential nomination in Tampa, Fla., next week.
The vote puts the Republican Party at odds with Mr. Romney, who supports rape and incest exceptions, at a time that controversial comments by Representative Todd Akin, the Republican Senate candidate in Missouri, have increased national scrutiny on the divisive social issue.
Mr. Akin said over the weekend that women’s bodies will resist getting pregnant from a “legitimate rape,” comments that have been widely condemned, including by Mr. Romney who called for Mr. Akin to withdraw from the race.
“Today, his fellow Missourians urged him to step aside, and I think he should accept their counsel and exit the Senate race,” Mr. Romney said in a statement, citing former Missouri senators like John Ashcroft, Kit Bond, John Danforth and Jim Talent.
But Mr. Akin on Tuesday refused to step down from his race despite loud calls from his party’s leaders to abandon his bid.
Aides to Mr. Romney declined to say on Tuesday whether he would call on the convention delegates to reconsider their position on abortion.
Calls and e-mails to a half-dozen advisers on the subject were not returned on Tuesday.
Reince Priebus, the chairman of the Republican National Committee, tried to deflect questions on behalf of Mr. Romney, saying on Fox News that “this is the platform of the Republican Party, it is not the platform of Mitt Romney.”
The reluctance to talk about the platform reflects the delicate position that Mr. Romney is in when it comes to abortion policy.
A supporter of abortion rights early in his political career, Mr. Romney later switched his position.
This year, he captured the nomination of a party whose hard-core activists remained suspicious of Mr. Romney’s late-in-life conversion to their cause.
But as he prepares to accept that nomination next week in Tampa, Mr. Romney is once again being forced to carefully navigate between the uncompromising antiabortion positions of his party’s base and the more moderate politics of the swing voters he needs to win over.
The vote on the platform is an important part of the Republican Party’s outreach to its conservative base.
Mr. Romney and his aides have worked hard to ensure that social conservatives at the convention — and the voters they represent — do not feel left out.
The party platform — and the positions taken on abortion, same-sex marriage and other social issues — are a key part of that effort.
If Mr. Romney were to reject the party’s tough abortion plank, it would send a politically difficult message to conservatives about how Mr. Romney might govern once he got into the White House.
There could also be a flurry of conservative outrage at the convention, which could distract from the carefully choreographed event Mr. Romney’s strategists are planning.
But Mr. Romney’s campaign is also trying hard to make sure that the convention projects an image that swing voters in battleground states will find appealing.
Aides did not expect to be focusing heavily on the party’s abortion positions this week.
The campaign has already chosen in the last several weeks to move off its core message about jobs and the economy.
The convention is intended to return the campaign’s message to one of how Mr. Romney will get the nation’s economy back on track.
In the current political environment involving Mr. Akin’s comments, a decision by Mr. Romney to accept the party’s abortion plank will open his campaign to attacks from his rivals that he is out of step with moderate, independent voters.
Democrats have already pounced.
Officials with the Democratic National Committee quickly called the Republican abortion position the “Akin plank” and scheduled a news conference to denounce it.
“American women know that Mitt Romney, Paul Ryan and the party they lead are the wrong choice for women and their families,” a statement from the Democratic committee said.
“Mitt Romney should do the right thing and denounce this dangerous language.”
--- end NYT----

--- start HPO (w error) ----
Presumptive GOP presidential nominee Mitt Romney on Tuesday joined a chorus of Republicans calling for Rep. Todd Akin (R-Mo.) to drop out of the U.S. Senate race in Missouri.
"As I said yesterday, Todd Akin's comments were offensive and wrong and he should very seriously consider what course would be in the best interest of our country," said Romney in a statement.
"Today, his fellow Missourians urged him to step aside, and I think he should accept their counsel and exit the Senate race."
Akin, however, continued his refusal to step down Tuesday in a subsequent interview on Sean Hannity's radio show.
"It still seems to me that there has to be room … to broaden the scope of what a campaign needs to be about," he said, going on to suggest Romney had made a bigger deal of the remark than he needed to.
"Why can't Mitt Romney run his race and I'll run mine?" Akin continued.
He later confirmed that vice presidential candidate Paul Ryan called him and told him to "give some thought to stepping down," but didn't tell him to get out.
Akin also claimed he would help Romney and the Republican party in November by soldiering on, but admitted that no senator had called him to ask him to stay in the race.
On Sunday, Akin prompted outrage with his response to a question about supporting abortion in the case of rape.
"From what I understand from doctors, that's really rare," said Akin said of pregnancies caused by rape.
"If it's a legitimate rape, the female body has ways to try to shut that whole thing down.
But let's assume maybe that didn't work or something.
I think there should be some punishment, but the punishment ought to be on the rapist."
Romney had stopped short of calling on Akin to resign in an interview with WMUR Monday.
Other officials in the GOP, including five senior Missouri Republicans, were less forgiving, however, suggesting that Akin had created an irreversible distraction and could no longer run as a viable candidate.
(TN) Akin had also vowed to remain in the race earlier Tuesday on the radio show of former Republican presidential candidate Mike Huckabee.
During the interview, Akin said he would continue campaigning because he still believed he could win.
--- end HPO (w error) ----