--- start FOX----
The terror massacre at a packed Orlando nightclub reverberated across the presidential campaign trail Sunday, as the candidates condemned the deadliest shooting in U.S. history -- and Donald Trump ripped President Obama and Hillary Clinton for avoiding the term “radical Islam” in doing so.
The presumptive Republican presidential nominee went so far as to say Obama should “step down” for not using the term and Clinton should “get out of this race” if she won’t either.
“If we do not get tough and smart real fast, we are not going to have a country anymore,” Trump said in a statement.
“Because our leaders are weak, I said this was going to happen -- and it is only going to get worse.
I am trying to save lives and prevent the next terrorist attack.
We can't afford to be politically correct anymore.”
Obama, speaking from the White House on Sunday, said the nightclub massacre in which 50 people were killed and at least 53 others were wounded is being investigated as an “act of terror,” though did not say whether it was tied to radical Islam.
The gunman, Omar Mir Seddique Mateen, was heard shouting “Allahu Akbar” while engaging officers, law enforcement sources told Fox News.
Mateen also called 911 during the shooting to pledge allegiance to ISIS leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, Fox News has learned.
ISIS reportedly claimed responsibility for the attack, though it’s unclear if the shooting was actually directed by the group or only inspired by it.
All these details, surrounding the deadliest terror attack on the U.S. homeland since 9/11, have fueled tensions in the presidential race at an already-combustible time.
Trump has faced intense criticism from members of both parties for his calls to temporarily ban Muslim immigration to the U.S.
In the wake of the Orlando attack, Trump again defended his proposals, saying on Twitter: “What has happened in Orlando is just the beginning.
Our leadership is weak and ineffective. I called it and asked for the ban. Must be tough.”
Trump originally was planning to deliver a speech Monday in Manchester, N.H., focused on the Clintons.
In the wake of the Orlando attack, it will also focus on security and immigration issues, Fox News is told.
Democratic candidate Bernie Sanders also condemned the attack, while speaking to reporters outside his home in Burlington, Vt.
Earlier Sunday, Clinton released a statement unequivocally calling the massacre an “act of terror.”
“For now, we can say for certain that we need to redouble our efforts to defend our country from threats at home and abroad.
That means defeating international terror groups, working with allies and partners to go after them wherever they are, countering their attempts to recruit people here and everywhere, and hardening our defenses at home.
It also means refusing to be intimidated and staying true to our values,” she said.
She also called it an “act of hate” -- a term Obama also used -- since the attacker targeted an LGBT nightclub during Pride Month.
And she said the country needs to “keep guns like the ones used last night out of the hands of terrorists or other violent criminals.”
Clinton did not reference radical Islam.
Meanwhile, a joint campaign rally with Clinton and Obama set for Wednesday in Green Bay, Wis., has been postponed in light of the attack, according to a White House official.
Obama also ordered U.S. flags to be flown at half-staff “as a mark of respect for the victims of the act of hatred and terror perpetrated on Sunday, June 12, 2016, in Orlando, Florida.”
Florida GOP Gov. Rick Scott declared a state of emergency, which will make additional resources available for local authorities.
He offered “thoughts and prayers” to all those affected by the attack, particularly the victims and their families, and praised the efforts of the first-responders.
--- end FOX----

--- start HPO----
Presumptive Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump issued a bombastic call for President Barack Obama to resign on Sunday over the president’s response to a shooting at an Orlando night club that left 50 people dead and scores of others injured.
"In his remarks today, President Obama disgracefully refused to even say the words 'Radical Islam'.
For that reason alone, he should step down.
If Hillary Clinton, after this attack, still cannot say the two words 'Radical Islam' she should get out of this race for the Presidency," Trump said in a statement released by his campaign.
"If we do not get tough and smart real fast, we are not going to have a country anymore.
Because our leaders are weak, I said this was going to happen – and it is only going to get worse.
I am trying to save lives and prevent the next terrorist attack.
We can't afford to be politically correct anymore," the statement continued.
In their remarks on Sunday, both Obama and Clinton referred to the shooting as an “act of terror" and an "act of hate."
Obama last year explained that he refuses to describe the self-proclaimed Islamic State and al Qaeda as groups fueled by “radical Islam” because the term grants them a religious legitimacy they don’t deserve.
Trump noted in his statement that the gunman, Omar Mateen, was "the son of an immigrant from Afghanistan who openly published his support for the Afghanistani Taliban and even tried to run for President of Afghanistan."
According to the Washington Post, Seddique Mateen expressed gratitude toward the Afghan Taliban in videos posted online.
His son had reportedly pledged allegiance to ISIS before executing the attack, though officials say there is no evidence he had direct ties to the group.
Trump also criticized Clinton, his presumptive Democratic challenger, for wanting to "dramatically increase admissions" of Syrian refugees into the United States.
"We need to protect all Americans, of all backgrounds and all beliefs, from Radical Islamic Terrorism - which has no place in an open and tolerant society," Trump said.
"Radical Islam advocates hate for women, gays, Jews, Christians and all Americans.
I am going to be a President for all Americans, and I am going to protect and defend all Americans."
In a follow-up tweet posted later Sunday, Trump reiterated his call for a ban on Muslims entering the United States -- even though the Orlando gunman was an American citizen, born in New York.
He obtained his weapons legally, despite having been investigated by the FBI several times.
Trump's campaign said he would be delivering a "major speech" in New Hampshire on Monday that would address "this terrorist attack, immigration, and national security."
--- end HPO----

--- start NYT (w error) ----
WASHINGTON — The tableau at the White House was chillingly familiar: The somber president, nearing the end of his eight-year term, walked grim-faced to the podium to offer his condolences, promised action in the wake of suffering and pleaded for a new resolve that just might prevent more deaths in a hail of bullets.
The list of tragedies on President Obama’s watch seems countless by now.
An elementary classroom. A church. A military base. A movie theater. And, now, a gay nightclub.
Mr. Obama said Sunday’s massacre, by a gunman with a handgun and an assault weapon, is another brutal reminder of how easy it is for someone to slaughter dozens.
“We have to decide if that’s the kind of country we want to be,” Mr. Obama said on Sunday as he mourned the nation’s deadliest mass shooting.
“And to actively do nothing is a decision, as well.”
Mr. Obama vowed to respond forcefully to what he called a devastating “act of terror and an act of hate.”
This time, it was a tragedy that combined gun violence, a hatred of gays and ties to Islamist terrorism.
In his remarks, Mr. Obama said it was still unclear to the authorities whether there was a direct link between the gunman and international terrorist groups.
But in the hours after he spoke, law enforcement officials said that the gunman had pledged his allegiance to the Islamic State, and they acknowledged that he had twice been investigated for terrorism connections.
It took only hours for questions about those connections to become fodder in the presidential campaign.
Donald J. Trump, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, seized on the attacks as evidence of America’s weakness in facing terrorism.
He demanded that Mr. Obama resign because he refused to say the words “radical Islam” in his remarks.
“If we do not get tough and smart real fast, we are not going to have a country anymore,” Mr. Trump said in a statement.
“Because our leaders are weak, I said this was going to happen — and it is only going to get worse.
I am trying to save lives and prevent the next terrorist attack.”
Hillary Clinton, the presumptive Democratic presidential nominee, called the massacre in Orlando, Fla., an “act of terror” and an “act of hate” and called for “hardening our defenses at home” while “refusing to be intimidated and staying true to our values” in the United States.
Mr. Obama pleaded with Americans during his remarks not to “give in to fear or turn against each other,” a somewhat muted reference to Mr. Trump’s previous call for a ban on Muslims entering the United States.
“In the face of hate and violence, we will love one another,” Mr. Obama said.
Rather than giving in to fear, the president said, “we will stand united, as Americans, to protect our people, and defend our nation, and to take action against those who threaten us.”
Speaking to reporters, Mr. Obama said the country had again been traumatized by grievous violence, which shattered more than 100 lives during a three-hour nightmare early Sunday, with 50 people killed and 53 wounded in the attack.
During his presidency, Mr. Obama has repeatedly mourned victims of mass shootings, often expressing anger and frustration at what he has said is the country’s apparent willingness to let them become a “normal” part of life.
That anger has been compounded by Mr. Obama’s inability to persuade lawmakers to impose new restrictions on the availability of firearms, especially the assault-style rifles like the one believed to have been used by the gunman in Sunday morning’s attack in Orlando.
A major push for a ban on assault weapons after the 2012 massacre of schoolchildren in Newtown, Conn., ended in failure.
“Can we say that we’re truly doing enough to give all the children of this country the chance they deserve to live out their lives in happiness and with purpose?” an emotional Mr. Obama said after the Newtown attack.
Mr. Obama on Sunday gave his deepest condolences to the families of the victims, and he said Americans should, in particular, keep the country’s gay and lesbian community in mind as they offer their prayers.
He called it an “especially heartbreaking day” for the gay community.
(TN) “The shooter targeted a nightclub where people came together to be with friends, to dance and to sing, and to live,” Mr. Obama said.
“The place where they were attacked is more than a nightclub — it is a place of solidarity and empowerment where people have come together to raise awareness, to speak their minds and to advocate for their civil rights.”
Mr. Obama has often hailed the progress on gay rights that has been made during his presidency, especially the decision by the United States Supreme Court to allow same-sex marriage.
But those legal protections have not erased hatred in the country.
“This is a sobering reminder that attacks on any American — regardless of race, ethnicity, religion or sexual orientation — is an attack on all of us and on the fundamental values of equality and dignity that define us as a country,” he said.
Mr. Obama took no questions from reporters after delivering his five-minute remarks.
He turned from the podium to walk back into the West Wing, once again left to monitor the investigation, prepare a likely eulogy for the dead and wonder when he might have to come into the briefing room again.
Shortly after he spoke, Mr. Obama ordered that flags at the White House and other federal sites around the world be lowered to half-staff. Again.
--- end NYT (w error) ----