--- start HPO----
Arkansas Gov. Asa Hutchinson (R) signed a revised version of the state's Religious Freedom Reformation Act on Thursday, one day after refusing to sign an earlier version of the bill over concerns about discrimination against lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender individuals.
Earlier Thursday, the Republican-controlled state legislature passed a new version of the bill at the governor's request, amending provisions that would have allowed businesses to discriminate against LGBT customers.
The amended legislation mirrors the federal RFRA.
Meanwhile, legislators in Indiana have made changes to the controversial RFRA signed into law by Gov. Mike Pence (R) last week.
On Thursday, the state's general assembly passed new language explicitly stating that the law does not allow discrimination based on sexual orientation or gender identity.
The changes came amid immense national backlash, with dozens of politicians, business leaders and celebrities speaking out against the bill.
In a Wednesday press conference announcing his opposition to the initial version of the bill, Hutchinson said his son had asked him to veto the legislation.
"My son Seth signed the petition asking me, Dad, the governor, to veto this bill," he said.
"And he gave me permission to make that reference, and it shows that families -- and there's a generational difference of opinion on these issues."
Hutchinson also faced pressure from Walmart, which is headquartered in the state.
CEO Doug McMillon called on the governor to veto the bill, which he said "threatens to undermine the spirit of inclusion."
--- end HPO----

--- start NYT----
When Gov. Asa Hutchinson, Republican of Arkansas, spoke on Wednesday about the future of what proponents call the religious freedom bill pending in his state, he disclosed that the proposal had drawn resistance from a particularly noteworthy critic: his son, Seth Hutchinson.
But to people familiar with the Hutchinsons, long one of the most influential families in Arkansas, the news was hardly a bombshell.
“It would be surprising to me if he didn’t do that,” said Shawn Standefer, a childhood friend of the younger Mr. Hutchinson who captained their national championship-winning Quiz Bowl team in high school.
“He’s always been concerned with justice, however he’s thought of it.”
And so it was on Saturday, with lawmakers nearing a vote on the legislation that critics said would legalize discrimination against gay people, that the younger Mr. Hutchinson wrote to his father and warned that the proposal could damage Arkansas’s reputation and economy.
It was only the latest chapter in a politically complicated relationship between Asa Hutchinson, a former congressman, and Seth Hutchinson, 31, an organizer for the Texas State Employees Union.
“I love my dad, and we have a good, close relationship,” Seth Hutchinson said on Wednesday.
“But we disagree a lot on political issues.
This is just another one, but a lot of families disagree politically.
But we stay close.”
Mr. Hutchinson has not always been what he described as the family’s political “black sheep.”
“I kind of grew up on the campaign trail,” he said.
“Having a political opinion just came naturally to me.
At first, I pretty much followed the values that my family and my parents laid out for me.”
But, starting when he was about 15 and working as a dishwasher at a diner, Mr. Hutchinson’s views began to change as he shuffled through other jobs, including stints at Chuck E. Cheese’s and Sears.
He grew frustrated when he saw older workers enduring financial hardships in low-paying jobs.
“It just showed me that there’s something wrong,” he said, adding that he became interested in gay rights at about the same time, when friends began discussing their sexual orientations and after the arrest of an art teacher, who was gay.
“He was not out,” Mr. Hutchinson said of the teacher.
“And he was arrested in a park — I think the official charge was attempting to loiter — and it was obvious he was there because he couldn’t be out and keep his job.”
Mr. Hutchinson had robust political discussions with his father even as a high school student, long before their views diverged so vastly.
“He would defend his views,” Mr. Standefer said.
“And as they changed, he tried to stand by his new views.”
Mr. Hutchinson spent a year at Georgetown University before enrolling at the University of Central Arkansas, where he joined groups like the Young Democratic Socialists, and rallied for gay rights during the tenure of another Republican, Gov. Mike Huckabee.
He would contact a cousin, Tim C. Hutchinson, who sat in the State House of Representatives, to register his views.
Seth Hutchinson later moved to Texas and became a labor activist, which the governor mentions to left-leaning audiences.
Father and son communicate regularly, Seth Hutchinson said, and the family gathers at least once or twice a year.
“It’s always a lively and engaging conversation,” Mr. Hutchinson said.
On Wednesday, the governor said he would ask lawmakers to either recall or rewrite portions of the bill.
Seth Hutchinson, though, refused to take credit.
“I did not sway my dad,” he said.
“I think my dad is rethinking this because of the pressure that’s coming at him from all sides.”
--- end NYT----

--- start FOX (w error) ----
Arkansas Republican Gov. Asa Hutchinson on Wednesday urged state lawmakers to change a controversial religious freedom bill sent to his desk a day earlier, in the face of criticism that it could allow businesses and others to discriminate based on sexual orientation.
Hutchinson had initially said he planned to sign the bill but backed off as his state, overnight, became the new focal point of a nationwide backlash over such legislation.
Indiana for days has faced similar criticism for a related religious freedom bill.
During a press conference in the state capital of Little Rock, Hutchinson said he wants to strike the "right balance."
The governor, amid calls by critics to veto the bill, made clear he still supports the intent of the legislation -- which prohibits state and local governments from infringing upon someone's religious beliefs without a compelling interest.
But he said he wants changes made so it more closely mirrors a 1993 federal law.
"I asked that changes be made in the legislation," Hutchinson said, urging state lawmakers to "recall" the bill -- or pass additional legislation -- to "remedy" the issue.
The announcement reflects the intense debate in state capitals across the country where such legislation is being considered.
Backers say the intent was to simply replicate the 1993 federal law and similar laws in place in 19 other states.
But when Indiana passed a slightly more expansive version which critics said could allow discrimination by businesses, Indiana lawmakers and Gov. Mike Pence later vowed to "clarify" the language in response to complaints.
Hutchinson, too, said the country is clearly split on how to balance religious traditions with non-discrimination.
At its heart, he said, "this bill is not really complicated."
But he cited a "generational gap."
As evidence, the governor said even his own son had signed a petition urging him to veto the bill.
Hutchinson's chief complaint was that some provisions do not "precisely mirror" the federal law, and he wants that addressed.
He said he's also working on an executive order to address the issue of tolerance.
Echoing the reaction to Indiana's law, Hutchinson has faced pressure from the state's top employers, including retail giant Wal-Mart, which complained that the measure was discriminatory and would stifle economic development.
Little Rock's mayor, the city's Chamber of Commerce and Arkansas-based data services company Acxiom all urged the governor to reject the measure in recent days.
The Human Rights Campaign, the nation's largest lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender rights group, has run ads in Silicon Valley targeting technology firms Hutchinson hopes to attract to the state.
Prior to the passage Tuesday of the Arkansas bill, the White House repeated its opposition to the Indiana law.
"This kind of public outcry ... is indicative of how this piece of legislation flies in the face of values that people all across America strongly support," said White House Press Secretary Josh Earnest.
"Governor Pence falsely tried to suggest the law is the same as the 1993 law.
That is not true."
(TN) Earnest also said the Indiana law was a "significant expansion" of current law.

--- end FOX (w error) ----