--- start FOX----
WASHINGTON – Legally married same-sex couples will now be allowed to file federal joint tax returns, the IRS and Treasury Department announced Thursday.
The ruling allows homosexual couples to receive the same tax benefits that heterosexual couples do when filing jointly.
Thursday’s announcement comes on the heels of a historic decision by the U.S. Supreme Court, which overturned a part of the Defense of Marriage Act earlier this year.
Questions were raised following the high court’s decision on how the federal government would treat same-sex couples whose home states don’t recognize gay marriage.
The rules issued Thursday said the policies would affect all legally married gay couples regardless of where they live.
The rules, though, would not apply to domestic partnerships and civil unions.
"Today's ruling provides certainty and clear, coherent tax filing guidance for all legally married same-sex couples nationwide.
It provides access to benefits, responsibilities and protections under federal tax law that all Americans deserve," Treasury Secretary Jacob Lew said in a written statement.
Human Rights Campaign President Chad Griffin said that, because of today’s ruling, “committed and loving gay and lesbian married couples will now be treated equally under our nation’s federal tax laws, regardless of what state they call home.”
He added, “These families finally have access to crucial tax benefits and protections previously denied to them under the discriminatory Defense of Marriage Act.”
Not everyone was on board with the decision.
Brian Brown, president of the National Organization of Marriage, believes that giving same sex couples the right to file jointly “continues a pattern of lawlessness” across the country.
"The Obama administration is intent on forcing same-sex 'marriage' on an unwilling public," Brown said in a written statement.
"Congress alone has the responsibility of determining federal tax law."
--- end FOX----

--- start HPO----
WASHINGTON -- The U.S. Department of the Treasury announced Thursday that when it comes to taxes, it will recognize same-sex couples' marriages even if they live in a state that does not.
The decision, which was prompted by the U.S. Supreme Court’s ruling to overturn the Defense of Marriage Act, marks the latest political progress for the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender community.
Prior to this spring, the Internal Revenue Service did not recognize same-sex married couples pursuant to section 3 of DOMA.
Once DOMA was overturned in June, the question became: What about same-sex married couples who moved to a state that didn’t recognize their marriage (a couple married in Massachusetts who moved to Arkansas, for example)?
Thursday’s ruling by Treasury Secretary Jacob Lew provides a uniform policy for the IRS; the state of celebration -- where the wedding took place -- now trumps the state of residency when it comes to federal tax status for same-sex married couples.
“Today’s ruling provides certainty and clear, coherent tax filing guidance for all legally married same-sex couples nationwide.
It provides access to benefits, responsibilities and protections under federal tax law that all Americans deserve,” Lew said in a statement.
“This ruling also assures legally married same-sex couples that they can move freely throughout the country knowing that their federal filing status will not change.”
The new policy, which was first shared by Lew in a conference call that included LGBT advocates, holds a bit of political significance.
It was the burden of federal tax law on same-sex couples, after all, that prompted the legal challenge to DOMA in the first place.
Edie Windsor, the plaintiff in the DOMA case, sued the government after being forced to pay estate taxes following the death of her wife, Thea Spyer.
Had they been a heterosexual couple, Windsor's tax burden would have been zero.
After DOMA was overturned, it was reported that the IRS owed Windsor $363,053.
Under the new Treasury policy, all federal tax provisions where marriage is a factor, including filing status, employee benefits, IRA contributions, earned income, child tax credits, and income, gift and estate taxes, will apply to same sex couples regardless of where they live.
On the flip side, gay couples also will now be subjected to the so-called marriage penalty, in which some (usually upper-middle class) joint filers incur a higher tax burden than they would if they filed as single people.
The policy only applies to married couples, and not those in domestic partnerships or same-sex unions.
“With today’s ruling, committed and loving gay and lesbian married couples will now be treated equally under our nation’s federal tax laws, regardless of what state they call home,” said Human Rights Campaign President Chad Griffin.
“These families finally have access to crucial tax benefits and protections previously denied to them under the discriminatory Defense of Marriage Act.”
The Treasury’s actions on Thursday are just the latest in a set of LGBT policies offered by agencies within the Obama administration following the DOMA ruling.
The Federal Election Commission, and Departments of Health and Human Services and Homeland Security, also extended federal benefits to gay couples in states that don’t recognize their marriages.
UPDATE: Commenting on the Treasury Department's new policy, Edie Windsor hailed the decision as the precise remedy that she sought when she challenged the constitutionality of DOMA.
--- end HPO----

--- start NYT (w error) ----
WASHINGTON — All same-sex couples who are legally married will be recognized as such for federal tax purposes, even if the state where they live does not recognize their union, the Treasury Department and the Internal Revenue Service said Thursday.
It is the broadest federal rule change to come out of the landmark Supreme Court decision in June that struck down the 1996 Defense of Marriage Act, and a sign of how quickly the government is moving to treat gay couples in the same way that it does straight couples.
(TN) The June decision found that same-sex couples were entitled to federal benefits, but left open the question of how Washington would actually administer them.
The Treasury Department answered some of those questions on Thursday.
As of the 2013 tax year, same-sex spouses who are legally married will not be able to file federal tax returns as if either were single.
Instead, they must file together as “married filing jointly” or individually as “married filing separately.”
Their address or the location of their wedding does not matter, as long as the marriage is legal: a same-sex couple who marry in Albany, N.Y., and move to Alabama are treated the same as a same-sex couple who marry and live in Massachusetts.
“Today’s ruling provides certainty and clear, coherent tax-filing guidance for all legally married same-sex couples nationwide,” Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew said.
“This ruling also assures legally married same-sex couples that they can move freely throughout the country knowing that their federal filing status will not change.”
Gay and civil rights groups praised the ruling.
“Committed and loving gay and lesbian married couples will now be treated equally under our nation’s federal tax laws, regardless of what state they call home,” said Chad Griffin, the president of the Human Rights Campaign.
“These families finally have access to crucial tax benefits and protections previously denied to them under the discriminatory Defense of Marriage Act.”
But the Treasury decision could have ramifications for many gay couples’ tax liabilities, said Roberton Williams of the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center in Washington.
Couples with similar incomes often pay the “marriage penalty,” with their tax liability as a couple being much higher than it would be if they were single.
At the same time, same-sex couples will also be able to file amended returns for certain prior tax years, meaning that many couples might be eligible for refunds.
Couples do not have to file amended returns if they do not want to, a senior Treasury official said, meaning that couples who might pay the marriage penalty would not owe back taxes.
But the ruling creates complications for same-sex couples who live in any of the 37 states that do not recognize their marriages.
Previously, such couples filed federal and state tax returns as individuals.
Now, they will have to file their federal returns as other married couples do, but may be required to file their state returns as individuals.
“There’s going to be a cumbersome workaround,” said Nanette Lee Miller of Marcum L.L.P., a public accounting firm.
She sees it as a paperwork bother more than a financial issue.
States might also respond to the federal ruling with changes of their own.
“Most state income tax regimes begin with federal taxable income as the starting point,” Marvin Kirsner, a tax lawyer at Greenberg Traurig, said in an e-mail.
“These state taxing authorities will have to figure out how to deal with a same-sex married couple who file a joint income tax return for federal tax purposes.” He added,
“We will need to see guidance from each nonrecognition state to see how this will be handled.”
The rule change is likely to provide a small increase for federal revenue, as more same-sex couples pay the marriage penalty, Mr. Williams said, describing it as a “rounding error.”
But it would be partly offset by new federal spending on benefits for same-sex spouses.
The ruling applies to all legal marriages made in the United States or foreign countries.
But it does not extend to civil unions, registered domestic partnerships or other legal relationships, the Treasury said.
The Treasury ruling is one of many that are starting to emerge from all corners of the federal government as Washington changes regulations to conform with the Supreme Court decision.
Separately, the Health and Human Services Department said Thursday that Medicare would extend certain key benefits to same-sex spouses, “clarifying that all beneficiaries in private Medicare plans have access to equal coverage when it comes to care in a nursing home where their spouse lives.”
But federal agencies are not moving in lock step.
Instead, they are creating a patchwork of regulations affecting gay and lesbian couples — and may be raising questions about discrimination and fairness in the way that federal benefits are distributed.
Medicare and Treasury officials have said they would use a “place of celebration” standard for determining whether gay couples are eligible for benefits.
That means same-sex couples would receive benefits as long as they are legally married, regardless of where they live.
But the Social Security Administration is now using a “place of residence” standard in determining spousal benefits, and a gay couple in Alabama might not receive the same benefits as a gay couple in New York until final determinations are made or Congress acts.
The Obama administration has pushed federal agencies to ensure the Supreme Court’s ruling is carried out quickly and smoothly.
“It would be nice if they were consistent,” Ms. Miller said.
Creating federal regulations is a process and could change, she said.
--- end NYT (w error) ----