--- start FOX----
The AARP pushed back Friday on a report claiming the nation's most powerful seniors lobby was dropping its opposition to benefits cuts -- but at the same time acknowledged "benefit adjustments" would be necessary to make the system solvent.
The flurry of reports and statements left unclear whether AARP was opening up to new concessions in the debate over Social Security, as several lawmakers place reform proposals on the table.
The Wall Street Journal first reported Friday that the AARP, which opposed President George W. Bush's push to partially privatize Social Security, has decided to accept cuts -- though it would reportedly push for tax hikes to close most of the long-term Social Security shortfall.
AARP CEO Barry Rand later issued a statement calling the article "misleading" and claiming "AARP has not changed its position on Social Security."
He said AARP remains opposed to cutting Social Security for the sake of deficit reduction and to any privatization plan.
"We are currently fighting proposals to cut Social Security to pay the nation's bills," he said.
However, AARP legislative policy director David Certner told Fox News that Social Security needs a "package of revenue and benefit adjustments ... to make it solvent."
While the AARP claims its position on strengthening Social Security remains unchanged, others outside the organization detected a shift.
Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison, R-Texas, who on Thursday unveiled her own Social Security reform package, said Friday that the AARP has marked "a huge shift in the debate on the solvency of Social Security."
"AARP's new and welcome position is a positive step towards the type of reforms I've championed, and I look forward to working with the organization to shape the changes in a way that makes the least detrimental impact to present and future retirees," she said in a statement.
There is still plenty of space between the kind of plan Hutchison is calling for and what groups like the AARP would accept.
Hutchison's plan does not include tax hikes.
Her office claims the bill would cut deficits by $416 billion over the next decade and keep Social Security solvent by instead raising the retirement age to 69 over 16 years and cutting yearly cost-of-living adjustments by 1 percent.
Workers who are 58 and older would not be affected.
"Those two things would keep our Social Security system solvent for 75 years with really, I think, minor pain and a big gain," she told Fox News on Thursday.
But the AARP has told Fox News that Hutchison's proposal is not acceptable.
Asked about the possibility of Social Security entering budget talks at some point, White House Press Secretary Jay Carney reiterated past statements in saying President Obama does not see Social Security as a "driver" of the country's near-term deficits.
"The president supports measures to strengthen Social Security, but he does not support anything that would slash benefits for future generations," Carney said Friday.
The back-and-forth comes amid new warnings about the future of Social Security.
Trustees of the Social Security and Medicare Trust Fund last week warned the Social Security Trust Fund will be exhausted in 2036 and under current law, seniors would then face a 23 percent across-the-board cut in benefits.
But the president's budget director told Fox News that even when the trust funds run out, both Social Security and Medicare would still have some income.
"We have a little bit of time," said Jack Lew, director of the Office of Management and Budget.
"We do have a challenge, but it's not that we fall off of a cliff."
With AARP potentially backing off its opposition, other groups are poised to take up the fight.
A coalition of groups called Strengthen Social Security has railed against cuts to cost-of-living adjustments, recently releasing a report claiming "even the modest COLA on which Social Security benefits are adjusted isn't safe."
--- end FOX----

--- start NYT----
WASHINGTON — AARP, the powerful lobby for older Americans that has been seen as one of the leading opponents of Social Security benefit cuts, said on Friday that it was open to modest reductions in benefits for future recipients.
The group’s stance, which generated quick reaction from all sides because of its powerful voice on the issue, could provide added ammunition to fiscal conservatives who have sought unsuccessfully to restructure Social Security and chip away at the benefits it promises older Americans.
“Our goal is to limit any changes in benefits,” John Rother, AARP’s policy chief, said in a telephone interview, “but we also want to see the system made solvent.”
Mr. Rother said the group’s stance on possible cuts, which was first reported in The Wall Street Journal in Friday’s editions, should be seen less as a major change in position than as a reflection of the political and financial realities facing the Social Security system and the country as a whole.
“You have to look at all the tradeoffs,” Mr. Rother said, “and what we’re trying to do is engage the American public in that debate.”
He made clear that the group’s willingness to discuss cuts comes with conditions: Reductions in benefits should be “minimal,” they should not affect current recipients and instead should be directed “far off in the future,” and they should be offset by increases in tax-generated revenue.
Nonetheless, the group’s openness to the possibility of unspecified cuts was seen as a significant development by people on all sides of the Social Security question because of AARP’s influence on federal policies affecting older Americans, including Medicare, prescription drugs and many more.
Third Way, a moderate Democratic group in Washington that has favored possible reductions in benefits, called AARP’s position “a watershed moment” in the debate over Social Security.
“Now that they have opened the door to reform, it is time for lawmakers to walk through it,” said Jonathan Cowan, president of Third Way.
But other advocacy groups that are pushing to preserve Social Security benefits accused AARP of effectively abandoning its core constituency.
Max Richtman, executive vice president of the National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare, an advocacy group in Washington, said the timing of AARP’s statements was particularly bad because it came in the midst of deliberations between the Obama administration and Congressional Republicans about the debt ceiling and overall deficit reduction.
AARP insisted that the Social Security trust funds should not be raided to reduce the deficit and that the two issues were separate.
But Mr. Richtman said the group’s openness to considering future cuts would no doubt be used by deficit hawks to push for immediate cuts in Social Security benefits as part of the debate over deficit reduction.
“I think it’s tragic that AARP would, wittingly or unwittingly, play into the hands of people who have never really liked Social Security and want to decimate it,” Mr. Richtman said.
“AARP is the 800-pound gorilla, but they do not speak for seniors.”
Republican leaders, who have led calls for revamping Social Security, had no immediate comments on AARP’s willingness to consider benefit reductions.
An aide to the Republican-led House Ways and Means Committee, who spoke on condition of anonymity under committee protocol, said AARP’s position was a welcome acknowledgment that Social Security would be unable to pay future benefits at the current rate and that it must be restructured.
“The longer we wait,” the aide said, “the more difficult it will be to protect current beneficiaries and those who rely on Social Security the most.”
The most recent projections from the Social Security Administration, issued last month, indicate that at the current rate, the program’s trust funds will be exhausted by 2036, and that $6.5 trillion in additional money will be needed over a 75-year period to pay all scheduled benefits.
Mr. Rother said AARP expected to hear criticism from some of its members over its position on possible cuts.
“We have such a broad membership, Mr. Rother said.
“I’m sure there will be some who will not be happy, but others will be eager to see the program put on a stronger financial footing for the long term.”
While AARP has not issued specific recommendations or figures on how benefit reductions might be carried out, the group’s recent discussions with its members signal support for using increased revenue to fill two-thirds of the projected gap, and benefits reductions for one-third, Mr. Rother said.
As word of AARP’s position set off debate in Washington on Friday, the group’s chief executive, Barry Rand, issued a formal statement saying that the group’s position had not changed in any substantive way and refuting what he described as “misleading” media reports.
“Let me be clear — AARP is as committed as we’ve ever been to fighting to protect Social Security for today’s seniors and strengthening it for future generations,” Mr. Rand said.
While he did not directly address the question of possible cuts in benefits in his statement, Mr. Rand said his group would be working to evaluate any proposed changes in Social Security “to determine how each might — individually or in different combinations — impact the lives of current and future retirees.”
--- end NYT----

--- start HPO (w error) ----
WASHINGTON -- The nation's leading advocate for senior citizens says that it hasn't wavered in its opposition to cutting Social Security benefits, though a top official with the group said it is open to a discussion about raising the retirement age and other changes.
The Wall Street Journal reported Friday morning that AARP, one of the most influential lobbying groups in Washington, was softening its opposition to cutting retirement benefits.
AARP initially pushed back against the newspaper's story.
"Stay tuned -- our position has not changed on Social Security," an AARP spokeswoman said in an email to HuffPost.
AARP legislative policy director David Certner said on CNN Friday that "there was some miscommunication with the Wall Street Journal story."
But then Certner acknowledged that AARP believes the program needs to be changed.
"Everybody knows we need to look at a package of different changes to Social Security to make it strong for the long term," he said.
"The reality is, we have more people older and who are living longer, so we need to make changes.
Everybody recognizes that.
And we're certainly willing to talk about a package of changes that will keep Social Security strong."
He suggested raising the age at which retirees can receive full benefits -- currently, 66 years old -- would be on the table even though doing so represents "a massive benefit cut for people."
The 37 million-member lobbying powerhouse launched a national ad campaign Thursday warning members of Congress not to reduce benefits for recipients of Social Security and Medicare.
Jonathan Cowan, president of centrist think tank Third Way, hailed AARP's apparent reversal, per the Journal story.
"Today marks a watershed moment in American politics," Cowan said.
(TN) "For decades, AARP has stood against any substantial changes to Social Security.
Now that they have opened the door to reform, it is time for lawmakers to walk through it."
Yet AARP reassured labor groups that it had not changed its position on Social Security, labor officials told HuffPost.
"The AARP has a history of division between the top folks and their base on these issues.
The top folks like to be in the inside game," one union official said.
"But they are walking backwards now."
The official said that he and other opponents of benefit cuts had been told that AARP's "longstanding position" hadn't changed, but there was some uncertainty about what that position actually is.
If AARP is open to reducing benefits, it would be a major boost for Social Security reformers who say the program is too generous and therefore unaffordable.
Social Security will start paying out more in benefits than it absorbs in taxes this year which will lead the retirement program's trust fund to become exhausted in 2036, according to the latest annual trustees report.
After 2036, the program will only be able to pay 77 percent of promised benefits.
By 2085, it will be able to pay 74 percent of promised benefits.
As of April, 35 million seniors received Social Security retirement benefits averaging $1,179 a month, according to the program's latest monthly snapshot.
Economists credit the program for drastically reducing poverty among the elderly since its creation in the 1930s.
The Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a progressive Washington think tank, estimates that Social Security keeps 13 million elderly Americans out of poverty.
The Journal reported that AARP policy chief John Rother is pushing the organization to accept benefit cuts as part of a deal to make Social Security solvent.
Rother's thinking, according to the paper, is that tax increases alone can't keep the program's $2.6 trillion trust fund from running out of money, so benefit cuts must be included as well.
Social Security's retirement benefits are funded with taxes on incomes up to $106,800, known as the taxable earnings base.
The base also effectively serves as a cap on benefits because they are calculated according to a worker's contributions over his or her lifetime.
A September 2010 Congressional Research Service report found that lifting the cap, without also raising benefits, would make the program solvent for the foreseeable future.
"If all earnings were subject to the payroll tax, but the base was retained for benefit calculations, the Social Security Trust Funds would remain solvent for the next 75 years," said the report.
"There are dozens of ways modest tax increases on even just the very wealthiest Americans would restore Social Security to long-run actuarial balance, and there would be enough left over to increase benefits," said Nancy Altman, co-chair of Strengthen Social Security, a 300-member coalition of national and state organizations opposed to benefit cuts.
The problem with plans to hike taxes is that they're politically unfeasible because of congressional Republicans' adamant opposition to any sort of tax increase, much less a tax increase not accompanied by a spending cut.
President Obama's National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform drafted a plan that would tweak Social Security by increasing taxes and reducing benefits both.
That proposal went nowhere.
UPDATE: AARP CEO A. Barry Rand said in a statement, "It has long been AARP's policy that Social Security should be strengthened to provide adequate benefits and that it is sufficiently financed to ensure solvency with a stable trust fund for the next 75 years."
The statement does not deny that AARP is open to reducing benefits.
--- end HPO (w error) ----