--- start FOX----
New York Republican Rep. Michael Grimm's attorney confirmed late Friday that federal prosecutors plan to file criminal charges against the congressman.
The decision follows a two-year FBI investigation into various aspects of Grimm's business and campaign history.
"We are disappointed by the government's decision, but hardly surprised," said the statement from Grimm's attorney, William McGinley.
"From the beginning, the government has pursued a politically driven vendetta against Congressman Grimm and not an independent search for the truth."
The statement said Grimm "asserts his innocence of any wrongdoing" and "will be vindicated."
"Until then, he will continue to serve his constituents with the same dedication and tenacity that has characterized his lifetime of public service as a Member of Congress, Marine Corps combat veteran, and decorated FBI Special Agent," the statement said.
The House Ethics Committee announced in November that Grimm was under investigation for possible campaign finance violations.
That committee said it would defer its inquiry because of a separate Department of Justice investigation.
A spokesman for the U.S. attorney in Brooklyn said he could not confirm, deny or comment on the case.
Grimm made headlines in January after confronting a New York City cable news station reporter who tried to question him about a long-running FBI investigation into campaign finance on a balcony in the Capitol.
After reporter Michael Scotto finished his report, Grimm stormed back, leaned into him and said, "Let me be clear to you.
If you ever do that to me again, I'll throw you off this (expletive) balcony."
Scotto, who was asking about fundraising during Grimm's first campaign, protested, saying he was asking "a valid question."
During that race, Grimm has acknowledged receiving $250,000 to $300,000 in contributions from followers of an Israeli rabbi, Yoshiyahu Yosef Pinto.
Some members of Pinto's congregation subsequently said they made tens of thousands of dollars in illegal contributions, including gifts passed through straw donors.
Grimm has denied knowledge of any improprieties, and the FBI hasn't accused him of any wrongdoing.
The Israeli businessman who had served as Grimm's liaison to Pinto's followers, Ofer Biton, pleaded guilty in August to an immigration fraud charge.
Three days after that guilty plea, the FBI filed a sealed criminal complaint accusing a Houston woman who had been romantically involved with Grimm of using straw donors to make illegal campaign contributions.
In that case, made public this month, the woman was accused of funneling at least $10,000 to Grimm's campaign by passing them through friends who agreed to have the donations listed under their names.
A spokesman in Grimm's Washington office, Nick Iacono, did not immediately return emails or a telephone message seeking comment Friday.
--- end FOX----

--- start NYT----
Representative Michael G. Grimm, a former F.B.I. agent and Marine who capitalized on his straight-arrow image to win a seat in Congress, was expected to be indicted on federal fraud charges after a lengthy corruption investigation, people with knowledge of the case said on Friday.
The charges against Mr. Grimm, 44, a Republican who was first elected in 2010 and represents Staten Island and part of Brooklyn, were expected to include mail fraud and wire fraud, and to focus largely on his conduct in connection with a health food restaurant he owned on the Upper East Side of Manhattan after he left the Federal Bureau of Investigation in 2006, two of the people said.
He was also expected to be charged with obstruction of justice, for allegedly lying under oath in a federal lawsuit.
The investigation of the second-term congressman, by the F.B.I. and the United States attorney’s office in Brooklyn, began more than two years ago with an examination of Mr. Grimm’s fund-raising for his 2010 race and expanded.
Two of his fund-raisers have already been charged.
One, Diana Durand of Houston, was charged with illegally funneling more than $10,000 into his campaign.
The other, Ofer Biton, pleaded guilty to visa fraud charges.
But on Friday, it did not appear that the indictment would include any campaign finance charges or accusations that the congressman had misused his office, although several of the people noted that the investigation was continuing.
They all spoke on the condition of anonymity as the charges had not been formally announced and they were not authorized to discuss the case.
A lawyer for Mr. Grimm, William McGinley of Patton Boggs, confirmed in a statement that prosecutors intended to file criminal charges against his client and said that Mr. Grimm “asserts his innocence” and that the investigation was “a politically driven vendetta.”
“After more than two years of investigation plagued by malicious leaks, violations of grand jury secrecy and strong-arm tactics, the U.S. attorney’s office has disclosed its intent to file criminal charges against Congressman Grimm,” Mr. McGinley said.
“When the dust settles, he will be vindicated.
Until then, he will continue to serve his constituents with the same dedication and tenacity that has characterized his lifetime of public service as a member of Congress, Marine Corps combat veteran and decorated F.B.I. special agent.”
Spokesmen for the office of the United States attorney in Brooklyn, Loretta E. Lynch, and for the New York F.B.I. office declined to comment.
Mr. Grimm, the only Republican member of New York City’s congressional delegation, is up for re-election in November and faces a potentially formidable challenger in former City Councilman Domenic M. Recchia Jr., a Democrat who headed the Council’s Finance Committee and was Christine C. Quinn’s chief lieutenant when she was Council speaker.
Healthalicious, the restaurant that the people said was a focus of the indictment, was on Second Avenue near 83rd Street.
The company Mr. Grimm formed to operate it was called Granny Sayz, L.L.C., and was affiliated with a company connected to Mr. Biton, the fund-raiser.
In January 2012, the New York State Workers’ Compensation Board ordered Healthalicious to pay $88,000 for not carrying workers’ compensation insurance.
About a year earlier, two former deliverymen hired a lawyer who contacted Mr. Grimm’s congressional office to complain that the restaurant had paid them less than minimum wage, did not pay for work beyond 40 hours per week and paid them in cash to evade scrutiny.
Shortly afterward, Mr. Grimm filed papers with the state to dissolve Granny Sayz.
The lawyer eventually sued Granny Sayz in federal court.
Mr. Grimm over time developed something of a reputation for being hot-tempered, which did not set him apart from many others in Congress.
But this year, during an encounter with a television reporter, he set a new standard for on-air congressional misbehavior and delivered a bizarre threat.
After President Obama’s State of the Union address, NY1’s Washington reporter, Michael Scotto, interviewed the congressman about the speech.
When he asked about the federal campaign financing investigation, Mr. Grimm stormed off camera but returned and threatened to throw Mr. Scotto off the balcony.
Then, the congressman, speaking in a barely audible whisper as he stood close to the reporter, said Mr. Scotto was “not man enough” and added: “I’ll break you in half. Like a boy.”
--- end NYT----

--- start HPO (w error) ----
Rep. Michael Grimm (R-N.Y.) is expected to be indicted by the U.S. attorney for the Eastern District of New York, Grimm's lawyer said Friday.
Politico was first to report the news of the expected indictment.
Grimm's lawyer, William McGinley, said in a statement that the U.S. attorney's office "has disclosed its intent to file criminal charges."
"We are disappointed by the government’s decision, but hardly surprised," he said.
"From the beginning, the government has pursued a politically driven vendetta against Congressman Grimm and not an independent search for the truth.
(TN) Congressman Grimm asserts his innocence of any wrongdoing.
"When the dust settles, he will be vindicated," McGinley added.
"Until then, he will continue to serve his constituents with the same dedication and tenacity that has characterized his lifetime of public service as a Member of Congress, Marine Corps combat veteran, and decorated FBI Special Agent.”
The New York Times reported the charges against Grimm "will include mail fraud and wire fraud and focus on his conduct in connection with a health food restaurant he owned on the Upper East Side of Manhattan after he left the Federal Bureau of Investigation in 2006," citing someone familiar with the case.
The Justice Department began investigating Grimm two years ago on allegations that he filed erroneous campaign finance reports and accepted improper donations during his first congressional campaign.
More recently, Grimm was in the news in January after he physically threatened a reporter in the Capitol.
The second-term congressman represents New York’s 11th District, which includes Staten Island and part of Brooklyn.
The Washington Post reported that Grimm is likely to turn himself in once the indictment is unsealed.
UPDATE: 7:19 p.m. -- The Washington Post now reports that Grimm has already "been secretly indicted by a federal grand jury in Brooklyn, according to people familiar with the case.
The indictment is expected to be unsealed in the coming days."
--- end HPO (w error) ----