--- start FOX----
Republicans challenge Clinton claims on budget cuts, Benghazi cable
Republicans are challenging a host of statements made by Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and Democratic allies during Wednesday's heated Libya testimony -- claiming that complaints about a lack of funding are bogus and questioning the secretary's insistence she never saw urgent cables warning about the danger of an attack.
The questions come as the Senate Foreign Relations Committee begins its confirmation hearing for Sen. John Kerry, D-Mass., who was tapped to replace Clinton at the department.
One issue that may come up is the department's funding.
Assertions that State Department posts are left vulnerable because Congress has decided not to fully fund security requests pervaded Wednesday's hearings.
"Shame on the House for ... failing to adequately fund the administration's request," Rep. Gregory Meeks, D-N.Y., said
Clinton, in turn, affirmed their claims, saying budget issues are a "bipartisan problem."
Budget numbers, though, actually show the overall diplomatic security budget has ballooned over the past decade.
Democrats point to modest decreases in funding in recent years, and the fact that Congress has approved less than was requested.
But Congress often scales back the administration's requests, and not just for the State Department.
And the complaints tend to overlook the fact that the overall security budget has more than doubled since fiscal 2004.
For that year, the budget was $640 million.
It steadily climbed to $1.6 billion in fiscal 2010.
It dipped to $1.5 billion the following year and roughly $1.35 billion in fiscal 2012 -- still far more than it was a decade ago.
Slightly more has been requested for fiscal 2013.
It's difficult to tell how much was specifically allocated for Benghazi.
Tripoli was the only post mentioned in the department's fiscal 2013 request -- funding for that location did slip, from $11.5 million in fiscal 2011 to $10.1 million the following year.
Slightly more has been requested for fiscal 2013.
Still, then-Deputy Assistant Secretary for Diplomatic Security Charlene Lamb testified in October that the size of the attack -- and not the money -- was the issue.
Asked if there was any budget consideration that led her not to increase the security force, she said: "No."
She added: "This was an unprecedented attack in size."
Asked again about budget issues, Lamb said: "Sir, if it's a volatile situation, we will move assets to cover that."
Asked Wednesday about Lamb's testimony, Clinton noted that the review board that examined the Libya attack found budget issues have played a role.
"That's why you have an independent group like an (Accountability Review Board); that's why it was created to look at everything," Clinton said.
But Rep. Dana Rohrabacher, R-Calif., said "any suggestion that this is a budget issue is off base, or political."
Other lawmakers further complained that the State Department has spent millions on lower-priority projects that could have been spent on security.
Another pivotal issue Wednesday dealt with an Aug. 16 cable.
That cable summarized an emergency meeting the day before by the U.S. Mission in Benghazi and warned the consulate could not defend against a "coordinated attack."
That cable is seen as one of the vital warnings sent out of Libya in the months leading up to the attack.
But, to the dismay of lawmakers, Clinton repeatedly said she never saw it.
"That cable did not come to my attention.
I have made it very clear that the security cables did not come to my attention or above the assistant secretary level," Clinton said.
"I'm not aware of anyone within my office, within the secretary's office, having seen the cable."
Rep. Michael McCaul, R-Texas, said "somebody within your office should have seen this cable."
"An emergency meeting was held and a cable sent out on Aug. 16 by the ambassador himself, warning of what could happen.
And this meant this cable went unnoticed by your office.
That's the bottom line," he said.
Clinton said it was "very disappointing" that "inadequacies" were found in the "responsiveness of our team here in Washington," and said "it's something we're fixing and intend to put into place protocols and systems to make sure it doesn't happen again."
The secretary tried to explain that "1.43 million cables" come through the department every year.
They are addressed to her but in many cases do not go to her.
Rather, they go through "the bureaucracy."
Republicans argue the Aug. 16 cable was rather high priority.
As Sen. Rand Paul, R-Ky., put it, "Libya has to have been one of the hottest of hot spots around the world."
He claimed that not knowing about their security requests "really, I think, cost these people their lives."
"Had I been president at the time, and I found that you did not read the cables from Benghazi, you did not read the cables from Ambassador Stevens, I would have relieved you of your post.
I think it's inexcusable," Paul said.
--- end FOX----

--- start HPO----
WASHINGTON -- The classified version of a State Department review of last year's assault on an American compound in Benghazi, Libya, found that it was impossible to say what exactly motivated the attackers, Secretary of State Hillary Clinton revealed Wednesday.
Speaking at a pair of hearings on Capitol Hill to examine the Obama administration's handling of and response to the attacks, Clinton repeatedly cited the classified version of the review by a State Department Accountability Review Board, distributed to lawmakers last month.
"As the ARB makes clear, after their months of research the picture remains still somewhat complicated," Clinton said, during an exchange with Sen. James Risch (R-Idaho) at the Senate Foreign Relations Committee.
"And I say that because in the unclassified ARB, it is -- I quote: 'Key questions surrounding the identity, actions and motivations of the perpetrators remain to be determined.'"
The question of what motivated the Benghazi attacks has often been viewed as a duality: Either it was the result of a mob angry over a recently released anti-Islamic video, or it was a terrorist attack.
That the administration wavered over its public declarations of the cause of the assault -- repeatedly citing the video before eventually confirming that it was clearly an act of terrorism -- was widely interpreted among critics as evidence of a desire to suppress or conceal the truth.
But from the start, the evidence on the scene in Benghazi was more complex.
Reporters from The New York Times and Reuters who were on the ground immediately after the attacks relayed that people involved in the mob scene around the compound repeatedly cited the video as a cause of their anger.
The Times later stood by that version of events, citing it in its fact-check of Republican attacks on Obama during the presidential campaign.
The ARB, in its unclassified form, mentions that the attackers' motivation is the subject of an ongoing FBI investigation.
But the classified version, Clinton said, detailed the possible motivations for the attack, and suggested while they were pre-coordinated and deliberate, they were also opportunistic and not planned extensively.
In citing the classified report to rebuff congressional queries about the administration's handling of the crisis, Clinton was drawing on a powerful tool of her office, although discussing a classified document is sure to raise further questions.
The added complexity wasn't always satisfying to the legislators who grilled her Wednesday.
While being questioned at the House Foreign Relations Committee by Rep. Jeff Duncan (R-S.C.), Clinton urged that he read the classified ARB report to find his answers.
"There are key questions surrounding the identity, actions and motivations of the perpetrators that remain to be determined," she said.
"I recommend that every member read the classified version, which goes into greater detail that I cannot speak to here today.
To which Duncan replied: "It was a terrorist attack.
It's pretty clear what the motivation was."
--- end HPO----

--- start NYT (w error) ----
Facing Congress, Clinton Defends Her Actions Before and After Libya Attack
WASHINGTON — In one of her final appearances as secretary of state, Hillary Rodham Clinton on Wednesday vigorously defended her handling of last September’s attack on the United States diplomatic compound in Benghazi, Libya, which killed four Americans and prompted a scathing review of State Department procedures.
“As I have said many times, I take responsibility, and nobody is more committed to getting this right,” she said, reading a statement during a day of testimony before Senate and House committees.
“I am determined to leave the State Department and our country safer, stronger and more secure.”
But Mrs. Clinton, whose appearance before Congress had been postponed since December because of illness, quickly departed from the script.
She jousted with Republican lawmakers over who deserved blame for the security problems at the compound, and choked up as she described being at Joint Base Andrews outside Washington when the bodies of the Americans killed in the assault arrived from Libya.
“I stood next to President Obama as the Marines carried those flag-draped caskets off the plane at Andrews,” she said.
“I put my arms around the mothers and fathers, sisters and brothers, sons and daughters.”
The continuing controversy over the attack, which resulted in the deaths of Ambassador J. Christopher Stevens and three other Americans, has cast a cloud over Mrs. Clinton’s final months at the State Department.
It also has enormous political implications for Mrs. Clinton, the former New York senator who is already regarded as the front-runner for the 2016 Democratic presidential nomination if she chooses to run.
It was the first time she had faced extensive questioning about her role in the episode.
In essence, Mrs. Clinton’s approach was to accept the responsibility for security lapses in Benghazi but not the blame.
“I feel responsible for the nearly 70,000 people who work for the State Department,” Mrs. Clinton told the Senate Foreign Relations Committee in the morning.
“But the specific security requests pertaining to Benghazi, you know, were handled by the security professionals in the department.
I didn’t see those requests. They didn’t come to me. I didn’t approve them. I didn’t deny them.”
When the question of her role was taken up again in the afternoon hearing by Representative Ed Royce, the California Republican who is chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, Mrs. Clinton acknowledged that she had been briefed on a series of events that indicated that security in Benghazi was deteriorating in the months before the attack.
(TN) They included the placement of a bomb at the outer wall of the compound in June and an ambush that month on the British ambassador.
But she said she had gone along with a recommendation from subordinates that the Benghazi post be kept open and assumed that they would take the necessary steps to protect it.
Mrs. Clinton first publicly took responsibility for the Sept. 11 attack in an Oct. 15 interview with television reporters.
Since then, she has committed herself to putting in place all of the recommendations of an independent review that was led by Thomas R. Pickering, a former American ambassador, and Mike Mullen, the retired admiral who served as the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
For all of the hours of testimony, the hearings did little to clarify the role of the White House in overseeing the American presence in Libya before the attack or explain why the Pentagon had few forces available on the anniversary of the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks to respond quickly to any assault on diplomatic outposts in the region.
One of the sharpest exchanges of the day came when Mrs. Clinton responded to questions from Senator Ron Johnson, a Wisconsin Republican, by saying there was too much focus on how the Benghazi attack had been characterized in its early hours and not enough on how to prevent a recurrence.
Republicans have repeatedly charged that Obama administration officials deliberately played down the attack, focusing much of their criticism on Susan E. Rice, the ambassador to the United Nations and once Mr. Obama’s choice to succeed Mrs. Clinton.
“Was it because of a protest, or was it because of guys out for a walk one night who decided they’d go kill some Americans?
What difference, at this point, does it make?” Mrs. Clinton said, her voice rising.
“It is our job to figure out what happened and do everything we can to prevent it from ever happening again, Senator.”
Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, began his questions by saying, “It’s wonderful to see you in good health and as combative as ever,” and then proceeded to complain that she had failed to answer lingering questions.
Mr. McCain asserted that the Obama administration’s aversion to nation-building had precluded it from providing the kind of training and assistance that would have helped the fledgling Libyan government in Tripoli confront growing security threats from militants.
“We did not give them the kind of assistance that would have been necessary to help dismantle these militias that still, to this day, remain a challenge to democracy in Libya,” he said.
Mrs. Clinton responded that Congress had delayed aid to Libya and said she would provide a list of steps that had been taken to train and equip Libyan forces.
A persistent line of questioning by Republican lawmakers concerned the initial comments from Ms. Rice that the attack might have resulted from a protest, over an anti-Islamic video, that spun out of control.
Mrs. Clinton defended Ms. Rice even as she appeared to distance herself from Ms. Rice’s comments.
“I told the American people that heavily armed militants assaulted our compound, and I vowed to bring them to justice,” Mrs. Clinton said.
The Senate Foreign Relations Committee’s chairman, Senator John Kerry, Democrat of Massachusetts, has been nominated to succeed Mrs. Clinton and is scheduled to appear before his committee on Thursday for a confirmation hearing.
To avoid the perception of a conflict of interest, the hearing on Wednesday was led by Senator Robert Menendez, Democrat of New Jersey, the incoming chairman, and Mr. Kerry did not attend.
In a rare criticism of the committee by one of its members, Senator Bob Corker of Tennessee, the ranking Republican, complained that the panel Mr. Kerry led had failed to conduct proper oversight of security and other State Department issues.
“This is an opportunity for this committee to finally do the work that it should have been doing for years,” Mr. Corker said.
Mrs. Clinton sought to put the events in Benghazi in a regional context, noting the presence of a group in northern Mali affiliated with Al Qaeda.
“Benghazi didn’t happen in a vacuum,” she said.
“The Arab revolutions have scrambled power dynamics and shattered security forces across the region.
And instability in Mali has created an expanding safe haven for terrorists who look to extend their influence and plot further attacks of the kind we saw just last week in Algeria.”
“We are in for a struggle, but it is a necessary struggle,” she said.
“We cannot permit northern Mali to become a safe haven.”
--- end NYT (w error) ----