--- start FOX----
Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid broke with President Obama Monday over the proposed mosque near Ground Zero, saying the controversial Islamic center should be built elsewhere.
Spokesman Jim Manley said in a written statement that Republicans should show their sincerity about sensitivity to Sept. 11 survivors by backing a high-profile bill to grant health benefits to rescue workers, something that stalled in Congress earlier this month.
But at the same time, Manley put Reid on the record for the first time in the hyper-sensitive and volatile mosque debate.
"The First Amendment protects freedom of religion," Manley said.
"Sen. Reid respects that but thinks that the mosque should be built someplace else."
Reid's comments added another high-profile voice to the mosque controversy.
The president first stepped into the fray Friday when he appeared to endorse the Park 51 project during a Ramadan dinner at the White House.
The next day, he clarified that he was merely commenting on fundamental religious freedoms -- not specifically on the "wisdom" of the mosque project.
Then White House spokesman Bill Burton said Obama was not "backing off" his original remarks.
The prolonged presidential explanation elevated the issue beyond a local dispute and hurled it into the political arena.
Republicans have since both criticized his position and pressured other Democrats to take a stand on the politically sticky issue, one where charges of insensitivity have flown on both sides.
The White House claimed Monday that politics were not at play in Obama's decision to dive into the controversy over a planned mosque near Ground Zero.
Burton said that he "can't speak to the politics of what the Republicans are doing," but the president was not looking to make political hay with his remarks, which he reportedly considered carefully before delivering them at a White House dinner on Friday night.
"The president didn't do this because of the politics.
He spoke about it because he feels he has an obligation as the president to address this," Burton said.
But the issue was quickly feeding fuel to Republicans looking to corner Democrats into taking a position on the issue -- something they were able to avoid before the president spoke up.
Though Reid is on the record, the National Republican Senatorial Committee on Monday targeted Sen. Charles Schumer, D-N.Y., for not speaking out on the issue.
Citing an article that said the normally chatty Schumer would not comment on the mosque remarks, the NRSC said Schumer should weigh in.
"It's a remarkable commentary on the most camera-friendly senator that he's more than happy to weigh-in on caffeinated malt beverages, but he won't take a public position on the construction of a mosque near Ground Zero," NRSC spokesman Brian Walsh said in a written statement.
"It's time for Chuck Schumer to stand up and be counted -- does he stand with President Obama in support of this mosque or does he stand with the countless 9/11 families who believe its location is inappropriate?" Walsh asked.
Walsh also suggested Reid would suffer politically from his allegiance to Obama on other issues, despite his stance on the mosque.
"While it's commendable that Senator Reid now agrees with Republican Sharron Angle that we should respect the wishes of 9/11 families, it's regrettable that he hasn't demonstrated this same independence from President Obama on the critical issues facing America during the last 19 months," he said.
Rep. Peter King, R-N.Y., who opposes the mosque project, said Monday that the White House softened Obama's original comments because it probably heard "pushback" from other Democrats.
He said Obama was "clearly" taking a side on the issue no matter what he claims.
"Everyone says as far as I know that the Muslim community has the right to build a mosque.
The whole question is whether they should or not," he told Fox News.
"So for the president to raise it in the way he did on Friday was clearly giving the impression that he was endorsing it or supporting it -- or tacitly supporting it."
Most Americans think the group planning the mosque and Islamic cultural center has the right to build it, according to a Fox News poll released Friday.
However, the poll showed that 64 percent think it would be wrong to build it, regardless of whether the developers are within their right to do so.
Supporters of the mosque and cultural center in lower Manhattan, including New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg, say its development should stand as a testament to religious tolerance in America.
They say it would be a mistake to equate Islam as a whole, and its practice in the United States, with Al Qaeda -- and remind critics that Muslims were also killed in the attacks on the World Trade Center.
Burton said Monday that the president weighed in as part of a constitutional discussion.
"The president thinks that it's his obligation to speak out when ... issues of the Constitution arise.
And so, in this case, he decided to state clearly how he feels about making sure that people are treated equally, that there is a fairness and that our bedrock principles are upheld," Burton said.
He added the administration can't control the conversation on cable TV or in newspapers, but the White House has had a "pretty fulsome conversation" about it and has addressed it to a "pretty full extent."
"I think that it's a debate that was had and we've weighed in," Burton said.
--- end FOX----

--- start HPO----
President Barack Obama's endorsement of the "Ground Zero mosque" during a speech on Friday night spurred some hope among supporters that a forceful case could be made for both the project's constitutionality and its larger geopolitical impact.
That hope was short-lived.
By Saturday, the president clarified that he was not speaking about the "wisdom" of the Islamic cultural center per se, just the right of the group to build the Cordoba House in downtown Manhattan.
And on Monday the highest-ranking Democrat in the Senate officially came out against construction of the mosque in its current location
"The First Amendment protects freedom of religion," reads a statement from Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid's office (D-Nev.).
"Senator Reid respects that but thinks that the mosque should be built someplace else.
If the Republicans are being sincere, they would help us pass this long overdue bill to help the first responders whose health and livelihoods have been devastated because of their bravery on 911, rather than continuing to block this much-needed legislation."
Combined, Obama's clarification and Reid's opposition represent a double dose of bad news for progressives and even Republicans who believed that a strong case could be made in favor of Cordoba House.
If anything, it's clearer now than it was last week (when Democrats were mostly silent on the matter) how deeply the party just wants this entire issue to go away.
Reid, after all, only issued the above statement after his Republican opponents began hitting him for going silent on the matter.
--- end HPO----

--- start NYT (w error) ----
WASHINGTON — Republican Congressional candidates on Monday intensified efforts to inject the divide over construction of an Islamic center near ground zero into the midterm campaigns while the Senate’s top Democrat said he objected to the mosque being built there.
Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Senate majority leader and a Democrat facing a difficult re-election fight, said through a spokesman that those who plan to erect the Islamic center should look elsewhere.
That separates Mr. Reid from President Obama’s support of the developers’ right to build the center.
“The First Amendment protects freedom of religion,” said Jim Manley, a top adviser to Mr. Reid.
“Senator Reid respects that but thinks that the mosque should be built someplace else.”
In a number of releases and statements, Republican House and Senate candidates challenged Democrats like Mr. Reid to make their positions clear on the construction of a mosque and community center about two blocks from the site of the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, in New York City.
“Ground zero is hallowed ground to Americans,” Elliott Maynard, a Republican trying to unseat Representative Nick J. Rahall II, a Democrat, in West Virginia’s Third District, said in a typical statement.
“Do you think the Muslims would allow a Jewish temple or Christian church to be built in Mecca?”
Republicans said Mr. Obama’s defense of the right of the developers to pursue the project showed that he was out of touch with average Americans.
“It is very troubling to see President Obama again turning a deaf ear to the thoughts and concerns of a majority of Americans,” said James Renacci, a Republican candidate in Ohio’s 16th District, who said people at a recent public meeting were furious about the mosque proposal.
The remarks were a rare instance in this campaign season when Republicans have strayed from a focus on economic issues in their push for substantial gains in the House and Senate in November.
The intensity of their attacks showed that they do not appear worried about the risk of being seen as intolerant or not supportive of the right to freedom of religion.
Some leading Democrats said it was the president’s role to stand up for constitutional rights in the mosque dispute.
Representative James E. Clyburn, the No. 3 House Democrat, said Monday that “articulating the constitutional principles” on which the country was founded and “calling for tolerance on the part of all of its people” were part of “a presidential act worth exercising.”
Privately, many Democrats were not pleased that the issue had been thrown into their laps during the summer recess as they believed they had been making inroads by talking about how some Republicans support privatizing Social Security.
But strategists said Democrats could counter the Republican offensive by labeling the mosque dispute as a local issue and saying Democrats remain focused on the economy.
Some also said the White House should not have put lawmakers on the spot in the first place and could have been better prepared for the president’s statement, lining up religious and community leaders to offer support for the right to build the mosque and undermine Republican attacks.
Other Democrats said they did not see the fight resonating strongly outside New York and did not expect it to become a defining campaign issue.
Representative Jerrold Nadler, a Democrat who represents the district that includes ground zero, said he doubted that the fight over the mosque would inflict much damage on fellow Democrats in the November elections.
Mr. Nadler, whose view is that the developers were entitled to build the mosque at the selected location if they choose, said, “Ultimately I suspect that once this simmers down in a few weeks, people will realize that everybody’s liberty is at stake here.”
The planned community center, perhaps 15 stories tall, would be built in three adjacent buildings two blocks north of ground zero, though one building, owned by Consolidated Edison, has yet to be sold.
The other two are all but vacant now; worship services are already taking place in one of them.
The developer, Sharif el-Gamal, a real estate investor born in New York, has said the center would include meeting rooms, a prayer space, a 500-seat auditorium and a pool.
Two mosques, founded in 1970 and 1985, are already within several blocks of the proposed center.
They are so busy and crowded that a search was begun for more space.
Before Mr. Obama spoke out, leading Republican figures like Newt Gingrich, a former speaker of the House, and Sarah Palin, the party’s 2008 vice-presidential nominee, had been voicing opposition to the Islamic center.
That caused other Republicans to warn that the party risked a backlash and was alienating the nation’s Muslims.
(TN) But Mr. Gingrich showed no sign of backing down on Monday.
“Nazis don’t have the right to put up a sign next to the Holocaust Museum in Washington,” Mr. Gingrich said on the Fox News program “Fox and Friends.”
“We would never accept the Japanese putting up a site next to Pearl Harbor.
There’s no reason for us to accept a mosque next to the World Trade Center.”
Democratic campaign officials accused Republicans of exploiting the Sept. 11 attacks, noting that their outrage over the Islamic center came just weeks after many House Republicans opposed a new medical program to monitor and treat emergency workers and others suffering ill effects from exposure to hazardous materials at ground zero.
--- end NYT (w error) ----