--- start HPO----
Rep. Michele Bachmann (R-Minn.) showed her support for Chick-fil-A Wednesday when she tweeted a photo of her visiting the restaurant.
"Have you gone today?"
Bachmann asked her followers on what became an unofficial "Chick-fil-A Appreciation Day."
The surge of support for the fast-food chain came after Chick-fil-A president Dan Cathy said the Atlanta-based company was "guilty as charged" for backing "the biblical definition of a family."
As gay rights groups launched boycotts against the company, prominent conservative figures like former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee, Senator Lindsay Graham (R-S.C.) and former Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin began showing their support by visiting the restaurant.
But conservatives weren't the only ones taking sides.
House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) tweeted about her opposition to the restaurant, and West Hollywood bar The Abbey introduced a "Chick-for-Gay" sandwich as a protest against the chain.
--- end HPO----

--- start NYT----
Hundreds of thousands of people across the country headed to Chick-fil-A restaurants on Wednesday, answering a call from Mike Huckabee, the former governor of Arkansas, to show support for the fast-food chain after the company’s president drew criticism for his opposition to same-sex marriage.
Long lines were seen outside Chick-fil-A restaurants nationwide, and many customers documented their visits on social media sites and shared their reasons for eating at the chain.
Many said they showed up because they agreed with the position of Chick-fil-A’s president on same-sex marriage, while others said they wanted to support freedom of expression for business owners.
As my colleagues Kim Severson and Robbie Brown report from Atlanta, where Chick-fil-A began in the 1940s, the president, Dan T. Cathy, made comments last month about the biblical arguments against homosexuality.
This prompted calls to boycott Chick-fil-A that were supported by the mayors of Boston and Chicago, along with plans for a same-sex kiss-in at the restaurants on Friday.
Last weekend, Mr. Huckabee used his television and radio programs, as well as Facebook, to help organize an appreciation day for Chick-fil-A on Wednesday.
More than 650,000 people signed up to participate, and tens of thousands “liked” photos of packed restaurants that Mr. Huckabee posted on his Facebook page on Wednesday.
Below are some of the photos shared Wednesday on Twitter from Chick-fil-A restaurants around the country.
Representative Michele Bachmann, Republican of Minnesota, shared a photo from her visit.
Last week, Sarah Palin posted a photo of her visit to a Chick-fil-A in California on her Facebook page.
Mr. Huckabee noted in regular audio updates Wednesday that Chick-fil-A did not participate in organizing the event.
And there were no tweets or photos about the appreciation day on the company’s Facebook or Twitter accounts.
In response to the outpouring of support for Chick-fil-A, many people used social media to share their disappointment.
One Facebook user who lives near Austin, Tex., posted this status update:
“It has been really disconcerting how many of my FB friends have stood up on the side of hate and proudly posted their photos of Chick-fil-a — and they all have their little quotes about how they ‘love their gay friends’ but they ‘don’t approve’ of their lifestyles.
So I am asking you kindly to please un-friend me — I have no use for friends like you.”
The Gay and Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation has asked supporters to donate the cost of a meal at a Chick-fil-A, about $6.50, to gay and lesbian rights groups.
Facebook users are also signing up to participate in a “National Same-Sex Kiss Day” planned for Friday at Chick-fil-A restaurants.
People are being encouraged to post photos of their kisses.
Others are not waiting until Friday to post their photos.
--- end NYT----

--- start FOX (w error) ----
It used to be that taking a bite of a chicken sandwich just meant you were hungry.
(TN) Now it has become a symbol of whether you stand for or against same-sex marriage, or – alternately – the right to express your personal views without fear of retaliation.
At Chick-fil-A locations across the country, people voted with their wallets today, coming out to express support for the fast-food chain after CEO Dan Cathy said in an interview that he is a firm backer of traditional marriage.
“I believe what the Bible says (about marriage),” Chauncy Fields told us after wolfing down a breakfast of chicken and biscuits.
“So I came out here to support Chick-fil-A and the movement.”
Chris Johnson sees a double standard. “He (Dan Cathy) said the exact same thing that President Obama said,” Johnson told Fox News -- referring to the president’s past opposition to gay marriage – “And he gets negativity, and Obama gets positivity.”
At one Atlanta location, the restaurant was packed, while the line for the drive-thru looped twice around the building and out into the street.
The backlash across the country against Chick-fil-A has been ferocious.
After the mayors of Chicago and Boston heaped scorn upon the company, the mayor of Washington, DC, suggested it was peddling “hate chicken.”
Those comments drew a sharp response from Rev. William Owens of the Coalition of African American Pastors.
“Some people are saying that because of the position that Chick-fil-A is taking, they don’t want them in their cities.
It is a disgrace.
It is the same thing that happened when I was marching for civil rights, when they didn’t want a black to come into their restaurant," he told a press conference in Washington, DC.
The Chick-fil-A firestorm has taken on different meanings for different people.
For some, it harks to the days of intolerance and segregation.
For others, it is about religious views of marriage.
But for most people who Fox News spoke to today, it is about free speech.
“I think it comes down to a First Amendment issue.
I mean, I do believe in the traditional values of marriage between a man and a woman,” youth pastor Stephen Lenahan told Fox News after a leisurely breakfast with three members of his ministry.
He is also puzzled as to why Dan Cathy is such a target, when other corporate CEOs who openly support same-sex marriage are not similarly criticized by conservatives.
Lenahan says he sees a bigger issue at work here.
“There is kind of a culture war going on and people aren’t really respecting each other and difference of opinion.
There’s no dialogue taking place to get to the heart of what we really believe as a nation and what is truth.”
Chick-fil-A Appreciation Day – as it is being called was the idea of former Arkansas governor and Fox News contributor Mike Huckabee.
But as protests against Chick-fil-A swelled across the country, dozens of groups and prominent individuals joined in support of the company.
Among the groups is Project 21, a black conservative activist organization.
One of its members, Demetrios Minor, said critics of Dan Cathy have taken his statements completely out of context.
“I think liberals are missing a vital point in their blind hatred of Chick-fil-A,” Minor said in a statement sent to Fox News.
“Being against gay marriage is not being anti-gay.”
Crtitics of Chick-fil-A argue that the company’s opposition to gay marriage goes well beyond Dan Cathy’s statements.
Over the years, its philanthropic wing, WinShape, has donated millions of dollars to outside organizations that actively lobby against efforts to legalize same-sex marriage.
On Friday, supporters of same-sex marriage will have their say.
They plan a “kiss-in” at Chick-fil-A restaurants across the country – encouraging gays and lesbians to share a public display of affection at the home of the chicken sandwich.
--- end FOX (w error) ----