--- start FOX----
President Obama formally endorsed Hillary Clinton to succeed him in the White House Thursday, saying she has the "courage" for the job and vowing to hit the campaign trail for her soon -- in a video message posted just moments after meeting with her primary rival Bernie Sanders.
"I know how hard this job can be.
That’s why I know Hillary will be so good at it," the president said, in the video posted on Clinton's campaign site.
"In fact, I don’t think there’s ever been someone so qualified to hold this office."
The president made clear he would no longer stand on the sidelines, even as Vermont Sen. Sanders vows to stick out the race at least through the final primary in Washington, D.C., next Tuesday.
The Clinton campaign separately announced that she and Obama would campaign together June 15 in Green Bay.
Clinton tweeted that she's "fired up."
Presumptive GOP nominee Donald Trump immediately fired back.
To which the Clinton campaign tweeted: “Delete your account.”
Meanwhile, Vice President Joe Biden voiced his support of Hillary Thursday evening at the American Constitution Society's national convention.
"Anybody who thinks that whoever the next president is -- and God willing, in my view, it will be Secretary Clinton."
The White House, meanwhile, said Obama recorded the video on Tuesday, the day Clinton effectively wrapped up the nomination.
The video was released shortly after Obama met in the Oval Office with Sanders.
Sanders afterward struck a conciliatory tone Thursday, saying he plans to meet soon with Clinton to discuss how they can “work together to defeat Donald Trump.”
The Vermont senator said he still plans to compete in next Tuesday’s Washington, D.C., primary, the final contest on the calendar.
And he said he plans to take his message “to the Democratic National Convention” in July.
He did not, however, say specifically whether he would still be an active candidate by then, taking no questions from the press before heading over to a meeting with Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid.
The meeting with Obama was private.
They met for over an hour, and Fox News is told no staff or aides were present.
But his tone, compared with his defiant speech early Wednesday after Clinton clinched the Democratic nomination, appeared to soften.
While offering no endorsement himself, Sanders said he spoke with Clinton and congratulated her “on her very strong campaign.”
And Sanders thanked Obama for his “impartiality” throughout the process.
He said he and Vice President Biden lived up to their pledge not to put their “thumb on the scales.”
White House spokesman Josh Earnest later said Sanders has the right to make campaign decisions on his own timeline.
Another former primary candidate, ex-Maryland Gov. Martin O'Malley, did endorse Clinton, saying "it is time now to unite our party."
Clinton and Obama, along with other party leaders, are eager to bring Sanders – and his supporters – into the fold.
The president's endorsement reflects their desire to unify as the general election battle between Clinton and presumptive rival Trump intensifies.
Sanders acknowledged a common political enemy, railing against Trump in his brief remarks to reporters Thursday afternoon and saying he’ll do everything in his power to prevent Trump’s election.
As for what he wants, Sanders said he’ll continue to fight what he called the “drift” toward an oligarchic society.
He lamented childhood poverty rates, crushing college debt, crumbling infrastructure and other woes and said these are the issues he’ll bring to the Philadelphia convention.
Whether that means a fight to overhaul the party platform – or a last-ditch bid to somehow deny Clinton the nomination – remains to be seen.
One demand Sanders was thought to be considering – as part of a party-unity deal -- is the removal of Democratic boss Debbie Wasserman Schultz.
Sanders and the DNC chairwoman have been at odds for months, with Sanders’ team long accusing her of helping now-presumptive nominee Clinton.
Whether Sanders sought – and the president would even consider – a Schultz sacrifice is unclear.
“I don’t see how she makes it through the convention,” one Democratic lawmaker told Fox News.
“The key to Hillary winning is getting Sanders supporters on board.”
Speculation over Wasserman Schultz’ position has swirled for months, however, and so far she has retained the public support of the White House.
Obama also endorsed her earlier this year in her House primary battle.
Asked Wednesday about the possibility of Sanders seeking her removal, Wasserman Schultz said she’s not worried about her job.
“I'm going to be remaining as the chair of the Democratic National Committee as President Obama has asked me to do until January 21, 2017, and I appreciate the president’s support,” she said.
--- end FOX----

--- start HPO----
WASHINGTON -- With presumptive Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton officially reaching the number of delegates required for the nomination, President Barack Obama congratulated her on Tuesday evening, and signaled that the campaign of rival Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) might be coming to an end.
According to the White House, Obama spoke to both Clinton and Sanders by phone following Tuesday's primaries and caucuses and will meet with Sanders on Thursday, at Sanders' request.
"The President congratulated Secretary Clinton for securing the delegates necessary to clinch the Democratic Nomination for President.
Her historic campaign inspired millions and is an extension of her lifelong fight for middle-class families and children," White House Press Secretary Josh Earnest said in a statement.
"The President thanked Senator Sanders for energizing millions of Americans with his commitment to issues like fighting economic inequality and special interests' influence on our politics."
Obama will meet with Sanders in Washington on Thursday, the same day the Vermont senator plans to hold a rally there.
The meeting was arranged "at Senator Sanders' request," Earnest said, and the two will discuss "how to build on the extraordinary work he has done to engage millions of Democratic voters, and to build on that enthusiasm in the weeks and months ahead."
Obama has yet to make an endorsement in the race, but White House officials have said that it could come as early as this week.
In recent months, Obama has privately suggested that Sanders drop out of the race to help Democrats unite around Clinton and prepare for the general election.
He has also shown an eagerness to assail presumptive GOP nominee Donald Trump, which could be an important asset in helping Clinton defeat Trump in the general election.
--- end HPO----

--- start NYT (w error) ----
WASHINGTON — Senator Bernie Sanders met with President Obama on Thursday and said afterward that he would do everything within his power to stop Donald J. Trump from becoming president — and would work closely with Hillary Clinton to make that happen.
After the meeting with Mr. Obama, which lasted more than an hour, Mr. Sanders gave no indication that he was ready to leave the race just yet, insisting that he would compete in next week’s primary contest here in Washington.
However, he made clear that party unity was on his mind.
“I will work as hard as I can, to make sure that Donald Trump does not become president of the United States,” Mr. Sanders told reporters, saying the Manhattan businessman “makes bigotry and discrimination the cornerstone of his campaign” and would be a “disaster” as commander in chief.
He said he would continue fighting for the issues that animated his campaign, including enhancing Social Security benefits, college affordability and restoring the nation’s crumbling infrastructure.
“These are the issues that we will take to the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia in July,” Mr. Sanders said, declining to answer reporters’ shouted questions about whether he would leave the race.
Shortly after their meeting, Mr. Obama endorsed Mrs. Clinton in a video.
He also praised the campaign that Mr. Sanders ran.
The visit came a day after the senator huddled with his team at his headquarters in Vermont to discuss the fate of his candidacy.
Mr. Sanders, who requested the meeting with the president, pulled into the White House grounds at 10:56 a.m. after stopping at a nearby Peet’s Coffee for a scone.
Mr. Obama and Mr. Sanders strolled down the colonnade next to the Rose Garden on their way into the Oval Office, chatting inaudibly and grinning broadly.
Nearby, a thick line of cameras and cluster of microphones were assembled in the driveway outside the West Wing, where journalists peppered the Vermont senator with questions.
(TN) Mr. Obama was trying to negotiate, however gently, with him to exit the Democratic race without inflicting damage on efforts to unite the party.
“My hope is, is that over the next couple of weeks, we’re able to pull things together,” Mr. Obama said during a taping of an appearance on the “Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon” on Wednesday in New York.
“There’s a natural process of everybody recognizing that this is not about any individual.”
Briefly posing for photographers before his meeting in the Capitol with Senator Harry Reid, the minority leader, Mr. Sanders ignored three questions about Mr. Obama’s endorsement of Mrs. Clinton.
His face flushed, Mr. Sanders did not speak at all.
But Mr. Reid gently scolded the assembled journalists for asking questions at what was supposed to be just a photo opportunity.
After his meeting with Reid, Mr. Sanders made a quick exit through a back hall on his way to meet with Senator Chuck Schumer of New York.
He was also scheduled to meet with Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.
After Mrs. Clinton won Tuesday’s California primary, Mr. Sanders refused to quit the race, despite Mrs. Clinton’s wide margin of victory and the fact that she had the support of enough delegates for the nomination.
But some of his supporters have started to walk away, prompting growing calls that it is time to bring the party together to defeat Mr. Trump.
On Wednesday, Mr. Sanders sent out a fund-raising email asking for contributions of $2.70, and at 7 p.m. he will hold a rally outside of R.F.K. Stadium in Washington, where he will discuss his plans for getting big money out of politics and making public universities tuition free.
--- end NYT (w error) ----