--- start HPO----
HARTFORD, Conn. — Connecticut Attorney General and U.S. Senate candidate Richard Blumenthal is defending himself against a report he misstated his military service in Vietnam.
Blumenthal's campaign called a New York Times report which includes video of him at a 2008 event saying he had served "in Vietnam" an "outrageous distortion" on his record.
Here's an excerpt from the Times report:
""We have learned something important since the days that I served in Vietnam," Mr. Blumenthal said to the group gathered in Norwalk in March 2008.
"And you exemplify it.
Whatever we think about the war, whatever we call it -- Afghanistan or Iraq -- we owe our military men and women unconditional support."
There was one problem: Mr. Blumenthal, a Democrat now running for the United States Senate, never served in Vietnam.
He obtained at least five military deferments from 1965 to 1970 and took repeated steps that enabled him to avoid going to war, according to records."
Blumenthal says he's always tried to make it clear his Marine Reserve service never took him overseas.
But, the Times reported, "an examination of his remarks at the ceremonies shows that he does not volunteer that his service never took him overseas.
And he describes the hostile reaction directed at veterans coming back from Vietnam, intimating that he was among them."
Blumenthal told the Times he had misspoken at the 2008 event in Norfolk in which he said he served in Vietnam.
In a televised March debate, Blumenthal stated clearly he had not served in Vietnam.
Blumenthal's campaign said he planned an event Tuesday with veterans showing their support for him.
Kevin Rennie, a former Republican state lawmaker, published a blog post stating that the Times piece was "fed to the paper by the Linda McMahon [Senate] campaign."
McMahon, the CEO of World Wrestling Entertainment, is one of the Republican Senate candidates running to face Blumenthal in November.
Rennie wrote:
"The Blumenthal Bombshell comes at the end of more than 2 months of deep, persistent research by Republican Linda McMahon's Senate campaign.
It gave the explosive Norwalk video recording to The Times.
This is what comes of $16 million, a crack opposition research operation and an opponent who, in the words of the president Blumenthal worked for on a draft deferment, who gave them the sword."
Rennie's article was initially re-posted on Linda McMahon's website, but the story has since been removed.
On Tuesday morning, a set of response points were circulated by Democrats close to Blumenthal's campaign:
-Here are the facts: unlike many of his peers, Dick Blumenthal voluntarily joined the Marine Corps Reserves in 1970 and served for six months in Parris Island, SC and six years in the reserves.
He received no special treatment from anyone.
Today's story unfortunately distorts Dick Blumenthal's record of service by implying that he did not serve.
-In the past twenty years, Dick has attended literally hundreds of vets events, debates, news conferences where he was clear, honest, and proud about his service in the Marine Corps Reserve.
In fact, as recently as the US Senate debate on March 1, 2010, Blumenthal clearly stated "serving in the United States military gave me a perspective as well, even in the reserves.
Although I did not serve in Vietnam, I have seen first-hand the affects of military action, and no one wants it to be the first resort, nor do we want to mortgage the countries future...."
-Dick has been a constant champion of veterans and of the military.
Today Connecticut veterans will come together to show they have his back, just like he has had theirs.
-On a few occasions out of hundreds, Dick misspoke and he'll be the first to admit that those were mistakes.
That doesn't take anything away from Dick's service or his long record of standing up for veterans - he is known throughout the state as a strong advocate for vets services and benefits.
-His opponent's campaign admits they are the ones who cherry-picked the quotes and are behind the hit piece.
It is no surprise Linda McMahon would want to smear the Attorney General, considering all of the debauchery at the WWF under her watch, including her attempt to interfere with an investigation into widespread drug abuse.
UPDATE: Richard Blumenthal defended himself against charges that he repeatedly made misleading comments about his military service during a press conference on Tuesday afternoon. Details here.
--- end HPO----

--- start NYT----
At a ceremony honoring veterans and senior citizens who sent presents to soldiers overseas, Attorney General Richard Blumenthal of Connecticut rose and spoke of an earlier time in his life.
“We have learned something important since the days that I served in Vietnam,” Mr. Blumenthal said to the group gathered in Norwalk in March 2008.
“And you exemplify it.
Whatever we think about the war, whatever we call it — Afghanistan or Iraq — we owe our military men and women unconditional support.”
There was one problem: Mr. Blumenthal, a Democrat now running for the United States Senate, never served in Vietnam.
He obtained at least five military deferments from 1965 to 1970 and took repeated steps that enabled him to avoid going to war, according to records.
The deferments allowed Mr. Blumenthal to complete his studies at Harvard; pursue a graduate fellowship in England; serve as a special assistant to The Washington Post’s publisher, Katharine Graham; and ultimately take a job in the Nixon White House.
In 1970, with his last deferment in jeopardy, he landed a coveted spot in the Marine Reserve, which virtually guaranteed that he would not be sent to Vietnam.
He joined a unit in Washington that conducted drills and other exercises and focused on local projects, like fixing a campground and organizing a Toys for Tots drive.
Many politicians have faced questions over their decisions during the Vietnam War, and Mr. Blumenthal, who is seeking the seat being vacated by Senator Christopher J. Dodd, is not alone in staying out of the war.
But what is striking about Mr. Blumenthal’s record is the contrast between the many steps he took that allowed him to avoid Vietnam, and the misleading way he often speaks about that period of his life now, especially when he is speaking at veterans’ ceremonies or other patriotic events.
Sometimes his remarks have been plainly untrue, as in his speech to the group in Norwalk.
At other times, he has used more ambiguous language, but the impression left on audiences can be similar.
In an interview on Monday, the attorney general said that he had misspoken about his service during the Norwalk event and might have misspoken on other occasions.
“My intention has always been to be completely clear and accurate and straightforward, out of respect to the veterans who served in Vietnam,” he said.
But an examination of his remarks at the ceremonies shows that he does not volunteer that his service never took him overseas.
And he describes the hostile reaction directed at veterans coming back from Vietnam, intimating that he was among them.
In 2003, he addressed a rally in Bridgeport, where about 100 military families gathered to express support for American troops overseas.
“When we returned, we saw nothing like this,” Mr. Blumenthal said.
“Let us do better by this generation of men and women.”
At a 2008 ceremony in front of the Veterans War Memorial Building in Shelton, he praised the audience for paying tribute to troops fighting abroad, noting that America had not always done so.
“I served during the Vietnam era,” he said.
“I remember the taunts, the insults, sometimes even physical abuse.”
Mr. Blumenthal, 64, is known as a brilliant lawyer who likes to argue cases in court and uses language with power and precision.
He is also savvy about the news media and attentive to how he is portrayed in the press.
But the way he speaks about his military service has led to confusion and frequent mischaracterizations of his biography in his home state newspapers.
In at least eight newspaper articles published in Connecticut from 2003 to 2009, he is described as having served in Vietnam.
The New Haven Register on July 20, 2006, described him as “a veteran of the Vietnam War,” and on April 6, 2007, said that the attorney general had “served in the Marines in Vietnam.”
On May 26, 2009, The Connecticut Post, a Bridgeport newspaper that is the state’s third-largest daily, described Mr. Blumenthal as “a Vietnam veteran.”
The Shelton Weekly reported on May 23, 2008, that Mr. Blumenthal “was met with applause when he spoke about his experience as a Marine sergeant in Vietnam.”
And the idea that he served in Vietnam has become such an accepted part of his public biography that when a national outlet, Slate magazine, produced a profile of Mr. Blumenthal in 2000, it said he had “enlisted in the Marines rather than duck the Vietnam draft.”
It does not appear that Mr. Blumenthal ever sought to correct those mistakes.
In the interview, he said he was not certain whether he had seen the stories or whether any steps had been taken to point out the inaccuracies.
“I don’t know if we tried to do so or not,” he said.
He added that he “can’t possibly know what is reported in all” the articles that are written about him, given the large number of appearances he makes at military-style events.
He said he had tried to stick to a consistent way of describing his military experience: that he served as a member of the United State Marine Corps Reserve during the Vietnam era.
Asked about the Bridgeport rally, when he told the crowd, “When we returned, we saw nothing like this,” Mr. Blumenthal said he did not recall the event.
--- end NYT----

--- start FOX (w error) ----

(TN) Democratic Attorney General Richard Blumenthal, once thought to be a shoo-in for the seat being vacated by Sen. Chris Dodd, D-CT, finds himself on the political ropes after a newspaper exposed a past incorrect statement regarding his service in Vietnam, and Republicans smell an opening.
Sen. John Cornyn, R-TX, who heads the GOP campaign committee, said Tuesday, "I think it's a blockbuster revelation," and predicted, "I think it's definitely going to make that race more competitive."
Blumenthal's campaign disputed a report in the New York Times as an "outrageous distortion" of his service in the Marines - six months on Paris Island and six years in the reserves, according to his campaign.
The A.G., according to the Times, said he had misspoken at a 2008 event in Norfolk in which he said he had served in Vietnam.
At that March 2 event, which can be found here on You Tube, Blumenthal, advocating for troops returning from war, clearly says, "We have learned something very important since the days that I served in Vietnam...
whatever we think about the war, whatever we call it 'Afghanistan or Iraq, we owe our military men and women unconditional support."
Cornyn's Democratic campaign counterpart, Sen. Bob Menendez, D-NJ, Tuesday offered a critical vote of confidence in the attorney general, saying his lifetime of support for veterans is what really matters.
"I think he's corrected the record in the past.
I think his actions standing up for veterans for a long time speaks volumes," Menendez said, "I'm sure he will continue to stay in the race...and we'll continue to support him."
Dodd, who faced an onslaught of criticism for his involvement with now-defunct Countrywide mortgage broker, among other problems, quickly scuttled his re-election plans in order to make way for the exceedingly popular Blumenthal, when it was clear in polls that Dodd was not likely to win his race.
Blumenthal will face the winner of the GOP primary on August 10 - either former Cong. Rob Simmons, himself a Vietnam vet, or former WWE wrestling executive Linda McMahon.
The attorney general is scheduled to appear at a news conference later today with veterans at the Veterans of Foreign Wars post in West Hartford.
--- end FOX (w error) ----