--- start HPO----
Democrats want access to special counsel Robert Mueller’s investigation into Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election before President Donald Trump has a chance to interfere.
In a joint letter from the chairs of six committees in the U.S. House of Representatives, Democrats wrote they expect Attorney General William Barr to make Mueller’s report public immediately.
“After nearly two years of investigation — accompanied by two years of unprecedented attacks on the integrity of the investigation by President Trump — the public and Congress are entitled to know what the Special Counsel has found,” the letter urged.
Its signatories include House Judiciary Committee Chairman Jerrold Nadler (D-N.Y.), oversight committee Chairman Elijah Cummings (D-Md.), intelligence committee Chairman Adam Schiff (D-Calif.), Financial Services Committee Chairwoman Maxine Waters (D-Calif.), Ways and Means Committee Chairman Richard Neal (D-Mass.) and Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Eliot Engel (D-N.Y.)
Earlier, Sen. Mark Warner (D-Va.) released a statement immediately after the Mueller report was revealed to be complete, demanding that Barr quickly put together a redacted, releasable version for Congress to access.
Warner said in a statement: “Congress and the American people deserve to judge the facts for themselves.
The Special Counsel’s report must be provided to Congress immediately, and the Attorney General should swiftly prepare a declassified version of the report for the public.
Nothing short of that will suffice.
It is also critical that all documents related to the Special Counsel’s investigation be preserved and made available to the appropriate Congressional committees.
Any attempt by the Trump Administration to cover up the results of this investigation into Russia’s attack on our democracy would be unacceptable.”
He joined a number of other Democrats, including several 2020 presidential candidates, who either had statements prepared or tweeted about a prompt release.
“The American people deserve to know the full truth about Russia’s interference in our democracy,” tweeted former Housing and Urban Development Secretary Julián Castro.
Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand (D-N.Y.) said that the report should be released “without delay,” and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) and Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) released a joint statement in agreement.
They, like Warner, didn’t want Trump to throw a wrench in Congress’ spokes by getting early access to the documents.
“Attorney General Barr must not give President Trump, his lawyers or his staff any ‘sneak preview’ of Special Counsel Mueller’s findings or evidence, and the White House must not be allowed to interfere in decisions about what parts of those findings or evidence are made public,” the joint statement said.
Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), who is running for the Democratic presidential nomination, echoed Trump’s own earlier call to release the report.
Meanwhile, CNN reports that the “principal conclusion” of the report, which the attorney general will soon give to Congress, is expected to be made public.
Trump’s camp wasn’t champing at the bit.
“We’re pleased that the Office of Special Counsel has delivered its report to the Attorney General pursuant to the regulations.
Attorney General Barr will determine the appropriate next steps,” said the president’s personal attorneys Rudy Giuliani and Jay Sekulow in a joint statement.
--- end HPO----

--- start NYT----
CHARLESTON, S.C. — Democratic presidential candidates wasted no time Friday evening demanding the immediate public release of the long-awaited report from Robert S. Mueller III, with several saying that Americans deserved to know any findings about President Trump, Russia and the 2016 election in order to form judgments about Mr. Trump and the 2020 race.
Former Representative Beto O’Rourke, campaigning in South Carolina on Friday night, told reporters that “those facts, that truth, needs to be laid out for all Americans to be able to make informed decisions going forward, whether at the ballot box” or in their discussions with their senators and representatives.
Mr. O’Rourke, asked if he supported impeaching Mr. Trump, said he believed the president and his 2016 campaign “at least sought to collude with the Russian government to undermine our democracy” and that Mr. Trump “sought to obstruct justice” once in office.
“I think those are grounds enough for members of the House to bring up the issue of impeachment,” he said.
“But whether they do or not, this will ultimately be decided by the American public at the ballot box in South Carolina and in every state of the union.”
No voters brought up the Mueller report to Mr. O’Rourke as he spoke to them Friday.
Indeed, in the hours after the announcement of the report, Democratic candidates reacted over Twitter or in remarks at events rather than in back-and-forth conversations with voters.
Several candidates, in calling for the swift release of the report, also sought to gather new supporters and their email addresses by putting out “petitions” calling for complete transparency from the Justice Department.
“The Trump Administration shouldn’t get to lock up Robert Mueller’s report and throw away the key,” Senator Cory Booker argued on Twitter, asking people to sign a petition and provide their names and emails.
Such information is often used for future fund-raising solicitations.
Within hours of Mr. Mueller’s completing his investigation, Senator Elizabeth Warren and the campaign arm of House Democrats were already placing ads on Facebook demanding the full report’s release, with the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee seeking 100,000 signatures for its online petition.
With no detailed information available about the report, Ms. Warren and Mr. Booker — as well as Senators Kirsten Gillibrand and Kamala Harris — sought to focus attention and pressure on how quickly Attorney General William P. Barr would release the full report.
“Attorney General Barr — release the Mueller report to the American public. Now,” Ms. Warren wrote on Twitter.
Ms. Gillibrand made similar demands and also retweeted the news of the report along with three words: “See you Sunday.”
That is when Ms. Gillibrand plans to formally kick off her 2020 campaign in front of Trump International Tower in New York.
Ms. Harris, in addition to calling for the report to be released “immediately,” called on Mr. Barr to “publicly testify under oath about the investigation and its findings.”
Ms. Harris, Ms. Warren and Ms. Gillibrand also joined Mr. Booker and Senator Bernie Sanders in asking supporters to sign their petitions calling for the report’s immediate release.
Four other candidates — Senators Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota; Gov. Jay Inslee of Washington; former Representative John Delaney; and Julián Castro — also called for the release of the full report.
“As Donald Trump said, ’Let it come out,’” Mr. Sanders wrote on Twitter.
“I call on the Trump administration to make Special Counsel Mueller’s full report public as soon as possible.
No one, including the president, is above the law.”
--- end NYT----

--- start FOX (w error) ----
The 2020 Democratic presidential candidates may have faced a setback after Special Counsel Robert Mueller's investigation found no evidence of Trump-Russia collusion, but made clear that they're not giving up the hunt for incriminating details against the president.
Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont, campaigning in San Francisco on Sunday, told the large crowd that, “I don't want a summary of the report!
I want the whole damn report because nobody, especially this president, is above the law.”
And on Saturday, one day before Attorney General William Barr released a short summary of Mueller’s findings, former Texas Rep. Beto O’Rourke charged on the campaign trail in South Carolina that you “have a president, who in my opinion beyond the shadow of a doubt, sought to, however ham-handedly, collude with the Russian government ― a foreign power ― to undermine and influence our elections.”
He did not comment at length on Sunday, but did say at a campaign stop in Las Vegas that Trump is “one of the most racist and uncivil presidents we have ever had.”
Mueller’s nearly two-year-long investigation did not establish that members of Trump’s 2016 presidential campaign conspired or coordinated with the Russian government to interfere in the election in favor of Trump and at the expense of Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton.
Mueller’s long-awaited findings also did not take a clear position on whether Trump obstructed justice, with no conclusions that the president committed a crime but also not exonerating Trump.
Barr and Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein on Sunday concluded, though, that Mueller’s report did not contain sufficient evidence to establish that Trump committed obstruction of justice.
America Rising, a pro-Republican opposition research group, took aim at O’Rourke, saying on Sunday after Barr’s announcement that the candidate made “brazen and incorrect claims on the campaign trail.”
Barr is expected to make public more of the report, but 2020 Democrats are demanding the full report be released.
“The Mueller report needs to be made public, the underlying investigative materials should be handed over to Congress, and Barr must testify.
That is what transparency looks like.
A short letter from Trump's hand-picked Attorney General is not sufficient,” Sen. Kamala Harris of California wrote on Twitter Sunday.
Rourke demanded Barr “release the full Mueller report to the American people and their representatives."
Sen. Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts pointed to a recent unanimous vote by Democrats and Republicans in the House of Representatives to urge the release of the report.
“Congress didn’t ask for a 'summary,' Attorney General Barr.
Members of the House voted 420-0 to release the report.
The American people deserve to see the full report. #ReleaseTheFullReport,” she wrote on Twitter.
Sen. Cory Booker of New Jersey wrote that the “American public deserves the full report and findings from the Mueller investigation immediately—not just the in-house summary from a Trump Administration official.”
It was a similar call from Sen. Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, who tweeted that “AG Barr's summary 4-pg letter of Special Counsel Mueller's investigation underscores that the ENTIRE report & documentation-including all information re Russia’s attempts to influence our election-need to be made public.
The public deserves answers now-our democracy depends on it."
(TN) And Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand of New York also chimed in, demanding that the “Mueller report must be made public.
Not just a letter from someone appointed by Trump to protect himself—all of it.
The President works for the people, and he is not above the law.”
South Bend, Ind., Mayor Pete Buttigieg, who’s seen his campaign surge in recent days, also called for the entire report to be released.
And in an interview on MSNBC, he pointed to the 2020 presidential election as the best way to oust Trump from the White House, saying, “I think this is further evidence that it would be a mistake for Democrats to think that the way for the Trump presidency to end is by way of investigation.”
Former Rep. John Delaney of Maryland called for the report to be made public, but also urged that it was time to move on.
He told Fox News Sunday night that “whether you're a Democrat, Republican or independent, you should want to see this report, and we should want to move on from this."
--- end FOX (w error) ----