--- start FOX----
Every Senate Republican has signed onto a letter vowing to block all Democratic-backed legislation until the chamber extends the Bush tax cuts and approves a spending bill to keep the government running, Fox News has learned.
Throwing down the gauntlet, all 42 members of the GOP caucus are sending the letter to Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid warning him that they will bring matters to a standstill unless he swiftly brings those tax-and-spending issues to the floor.
That means putting on the backburner a push to repeal the military's policy banning gays from serving openly in the military, a bill giving illegal immigrant students and military members a pathway to legal status and an extension of long-term unemployment benefits.
"While there are other items that might ultimately be worthy of the Senate's attention, we cannot agree to prioritize any matters above the critical issues of funding the government and preventing a job-killing tax hike," they wrote. 
"Given our struggling economy, preventing the tax increase and providing economic certainty should be our top priority."
"This strategy is very cynical but very obvious and transparent," he said in a statement.
A panel of administration officials and bipartisan lawmakers is getting to work Wednesday to try to hash out a compromise over what to do about the expiring Bush tax cuts. 
Democrats want them extended for all but the wealthy, while Republicans want them extended for everybody.
President Obama met with top GOP and Democratic congressional leaders Tuesday but left the nitty-gritty negotiations to the panel -- he assigned Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner and budget director Jacob Lew to represent the administration. 
Sen. Max Baucus, D-Mont., the representative for Senate Democrats, indicated Wednesday he's not worried about the impact the GOP letter will have on the talks.
"We have full confidence we're going to be able to handle all of this very well," he said.
But with Republicans vowing to deprive Democrats of the 60 votes they need to move toward a vote on virtually anything until these issues are addressed, negotiators will have to move quickly if they want to get to other matters before a new, more Republican Congress is sworn in next month.
The administration is still looking to repeal the military's "don't ask, don't tell" policy after the Pentagon issued a report Tuesday claiming the policy shift would not harm the military in the long-run.
Democrats also want to extend long-term jobless benefits, which expired Tuesday. 
A memo circulated by a GOP analyst noted that Reid so far has not been able to peel off any Republicans to support the measure to give benefits beyond 99 weeks.
The lame-duck Congress so far has approved a food safety bill, which still needs a final vote in the House, and a $4.5 billion settlement payment to black farmers and American Indians who claimed they were discriminated against by the U.S. Departments of Agriculture and Interior.
Lawmakers also passed a one-month extension of the "doc fix" that prevents cuts to Medicare approved 15 years ago from going into effect, but without action the rates paid to doctors for treating those insured by the entitlement program will plummet on Jan. 1.
It's not just Republicans who are concerned about the way the lame-duck session became a dumping ground for campaign promises and wish-list legislation.
Sen. Michael Bennet, D-Colo., was caught on a hot mic in the Senate ripping the lame-duck agenda, which was set exclusively by his party, as "rigged" and done without a discussion among members.
Aside from the tax rates, lawmakers must pass this week a continuing resolution to keep the government functioning. 
Election-harried Democrats opted against producing a budget at all this year, preferring to punt questions on tax rates and spending until after Nov. 2. 
So, the government relies on a series of patches to keep operating. Similarly, lawmakers must vote on a supplemental appropriation to fund military operations in Afghanistan and Iraq.
The filibuster threat increases pressure on the White House to offer a more realistic agenda for the remaining weeks of the year. 
For example, if Congress doesn't act on the tax cuts, it means Republicans will be in position to enact their own, retroactive plan starting Jan. 1 without having to make any concessions to Democratic demands for upper-income earners.
--- end FOX----

--- start NYT----
Democrats in the Senate hoping to pass nonbudget-related legislation in the lame-duck session were put on notice by their Republican colleagues Wednesday morning: No tax-cut extension? No laws for you!
In a letter signed by the 42 members of the Republican caucus, delivered to the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, and mentioned Wednesday on the Senate floor by the minority leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republicans informed their Democratic counterparts that they would not go forward with “any legislative item until the Senate has acted to fund the government and we have prevented the tax increase that is currently awaiting all American taxpayers.”
The letter goes on: “With little time left in this Congressional session, legislative scheduling should be focused on these critical priorities. 
While there are other items that might ultimately be worthy of the Senate’s attention, we cannot agree to prioritize any matters above the critical issues of funding the government and preventing a job-killing tax hike.”
Washington is locked in a battle over what to do about the Bush-era tax cuts, which expire at the end of the year. 
President Obama and Democratic lawmakers want to extend the cuts to all Americans except those with income above $250,000, while Republicans want tax cuts extended to Americans at all income levels. 
Another idea that has been kicking around over the last few weeks — proposed by some Democrats — is raising the expiration income ceiling to households with at least $1 million in income.
At the same time, Congress needs to make a legislative move to keep the government funded before the 112th Congress takes over in January.
Democrats were hoping to force a more ambitious agenda into the final weeks, including the ratification of the New Start treaty, a military authorization bill that would repeal the “don’t ask, don’t tell” provision, the extension of unemployment funds and the Dream Act, an immigration bill.
“If they really cared about creating jobs, they should stop blocking a preservation of unemployment insurance, which would create or save hundred of thousands of jobs,” Jim Manley, a spokesman for Mr. Reid, said in an e-mail. 
“Unfortunately this letter is nothing new. 
Republicans have simply put in writing their political strategy which they have pursued over the last two years: obstruct and delay action on critical matters, and then blame the Democrats for not addressing the needs of the American people. 
This strategy is very cynical but very obvious and transparent.”
This post has been revised to reflect the following correction:
Correction: December 1, 2010
Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this post said that Senator Harry Reid was from Arizona. He is from Nevada.
Senators John McCain and Lindsey Graham, two of the strongest Republican critics of the Obama administration’s handling of the Benghazi attack, offered support nonetheless for the nomination of Victoria Nuland, who helped edit the much-disputed talking points about the incident.
President Obama and Gov. Chris Christie, Republican of New Jersey, will reprise their pre-election tour of the coastal areas ravaged by Hurricane Sandy on Tuesday, a White House official said Friday morning.
--- end NYT----

--- start HPO (w error) ----
WASHINGTON -- The Senate GOP's threat to filibuster every single piece of legislation until the chamber resolves budget and tax cut measures will likely be tested as soon as Friday.
On Wednesday, Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid (D-Nev.) received a letter signed by all 42 Senate Republicans, which stated, "[W]e write to inform you that we will not agree to invoke cloture on the motion to proceed to any legislative item until the Senate has acted to fund the government and we have prevented the tax increase that is currently awaiting all American taxpayers."
But Reid plans to file cloture this week on at least three measures: the DREAM Act, collective bargaining for firefighters, and a 9/11 health bill.
A senior Democratic staffer told The Huffington Post that it was likely to happen tonight or tomorrow.
If it happens tonight, any of the bills could come before the Senate for a vote on proceeding to full debate as soon as Friday or possibly early next week.
"It had been my intention to file cloture on both of these bills last evening," said Reid on the Senate floor on Tuesday, "however, supporters of the original bills requested that some modifications be made.
These changes are reflected in the bills.
I intend to move forward on both of these pieces of legislation.
(TN) In addition, I intend to file cloture this week on the 9/11 health bill.
I'll file cloture on all three of these at the same time."
"We already have things on the calendar," said the Democratic staffer, noting that right now, it doesn't appear as if tax cuts will come before these measures that are already in the queue.
There could be some cracks in the GOP coalition to stand firm against any non-budget or tax cuts legislation though.
Sen. Susan Collins' (R-Maine) is reportedly open to voting to proceed on repealing Don't Ask, Don't Tell, even if the other issues aren't yet resolved.
Sen. Scott Brown (R-Mass.) recently introduced a compromise bill on extending unemployment benefits.
There's no indication yet that it will make it to the floor anytime soon, but if it did come up before a vote on the Bush tax cuts, it would put Brown in the tough spot of voting against his legislation or breaking with his party.
Brown's office did not respond to The Huffington Post's request for comment.
--- end HPO (w error) ----