--- start HPO----
WASHINGTON ―House Majority Whip Steve Scalise (R-La.) was still in critical condition on Thursday after a lone gunman opened fire Wednesday morning on a group of Republican lawmakers practicing for a congressional baseball game.
Six people, including two congressmen, two police officers, a congressional aide and a lobbyist, were injured in the attack in an Alexandria, Virginia, park.
The assailant, who authorities have identified as 66-year-old James T. Hodgkinson of Belleville, Illinois, was shot by police and later died of his injuries at a hospital.
Scalise underwent surgery at the MedStar Washington Hospital Center after being shot in the hip.
In a statement Wednesday night, the hospital said Scalise sustained “a single rifle shot to the left hip” that “travelled across his pelvis, fracturing bones, injuring internal organs and causing severe bleeding.”
“He underwent immediate surgery and an additional procedure to stop bleeding,” the hospital said, noting the congressman had received multiple blood transfusions and remained in critical condition late Wednesday.
It said Scalise would need further operations.
Before the surgery, Scalise was “in good spirits and spoke to his wife by phone,” his office said.
President Donald Trump and first lady Melania Trump on Wednesday night visited Scalise in the hospital, bringing flowers and offering support to the lawmaker’s family.
The Trumps also met with Crystal Griner, one of the two U.S. Capitol Police officers injured in the attack, and her wife.
Griner and David Bailey, the other officer hurt, are in stable condition, according to Chief Matthew R. Verderosa.
Vice President Mike Pence and second lady Karen Pence also checked in on Scalise and Griner on Thursday.
Zachary Barth, a staffer for Rep. Roger Williams (R-Texas), was shot in the leg.
He was transported to a local hospital and has since been released.
Williams sustained a minor leg injury.
Matt Mika, director of government relations for Tyson Foods’ Washington, D.C., office, was also among those shot.
His condition was upgraded from “critical” to “serious” on Thursday, a spokeswoman for George Washington University Hospital confirmed to HuffPost.
The attack took place shortly after 7 a.m. at Eugene Simpson Stadium Park, less than 8 miles south of the White House.
U.S. Capitol Police officers assigned to Scalise engaged Hodgkinson in gunfire, and Alexandria Police responded soon after.
“At that point, we were able to calm the situation, and victims were transported to the hospital,” Verderosa said.
The FBI is investigating Hodgkinson and his possible motives.
It’s too early to determine whether the attack was politically motivated, authorities said.
The shooter’s weapons ― a 9 mm handgun and 7.62-caliber rifle ― were recovered at the scene by law enforcement officials.
The Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives ran traces on the weapons and found no evidence to suggest Hodgkinson purchased the firearms illegally, according to an FBI statement released Thursday.
The FBI said it was processing a cell phone, a computer and a camera recovered from Hodgkinson’s van, which was in the parking lot of a YMCA adjacent to the park.
Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) confirmed on Wednesday that Hodgkinson had volunteered for his presidential campaign.
“Let me be as clear as I can be,” Sanders said in a statement.
“Violence of any kind is unacceptable in our society and I condemn this action in the strongest possible terms.”
Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.), who was also at the practice, told MSNBC that Scalise crawled through the dirt, bleeding, to get away from the shooter.
Rep. Mo Brooks (R-Ala.) told reporters that he used his belt as a tourniquet to stop a staffer’s bleeding.
Paul said that a number of aides were lying down during the attack as the shooter fired bullets their way.
Paul told CNN that “nobody would’ve survived” had Capitol Police not been there.
“It would’ve been a massacre without them,” he said.
Noah Nathan, 47, lives in a nearby apartment building and was at the dog park when the shooting took place.
He said he heard at least 30 shots and got down on the ground, but couldn’t see the shooter.
“There’s no place I could go,” he said.
The members were practicing for the Congressional Baseball Game, a D.C. tradition dating back to 1909.
The event pits Republicans against Democrats and raises funds for area nonprofits, including the Washington Literacy Center, the Boys and Girls Club of Greater Washington and the Washington Nationals Dream Foundation.
This year’s game is scheduled for Thursday night.
Police shut down the streets for blocks around the field early Wednesday, and a helicopter was flying overhead.
A lockdown has been lifted at the YMCA Alexandria, next to the field where the shooting took place, spokeswoman Dana Rucker told HuffPost.
No members or staff were harmed in the shooting, but the building sustained bullet damage.
“They are shaken,” Rucker said of YMCA staff.
“They’re just grateful everyone was able to work together as a team and get out.”
Hodgkinson was member of the YMCA, Rucker said in a statement.
She said that while he appears to have visited the facility “frequently and at all hours of the day,” staff received “no complaints” about his behavior.
Lawmakers from both parties expressed sympathy for the victims.
Trump said that he was “deeply saddened” by the news.
“Our thoughts and prayers are with the members of Congress, their staffs, Capitol Police, first responders, and all others affected,” he said in a statement.
During a bipartisan briefing on Capitol Hill later Wednesday, lawmakers discussed the possibility of allowing members of Congress to use campaign funds to bolster security at their private residences.
“There’s going to be a review of exactly what funds can and should be used in the event there are security concerns by any member,” said House Minority Whip Steny Hoyer (D-Md.).
He added that Ryan was investigating the matter alongside the Federal Election Commission.
“We’re looking at that,” Hoyer said.
Many previously scheduled events around Capitol Hill were canceled Wednesday, including an event Trump was scheduled to attend at the Department of Labor.
The FBI is taking over the investigation into the shooting, Alexandria Police Chief Michael Brown said.
Jay Roberts, 60, lives nearby and said the game was “probably one of the few moments with all this rancor and politics that they can have some normalcy.”
“I imagined it would be something fun to watch, you know, because evidently it’s partisan politics are put aside, let’s have a softball game, let’s have some fun,” he said.
--- end HPO----

--- start NYT----
WASHINGTON — The lawmakers trotted from their dugouts at Nationals Park, together in a near-summer air that never quite felt swampy, united in a certainty that the game must go on, just not exactly as it had before.
A day earlier, on another ball field some seven miles southwest, a gunman had opened fire on members of the Republican congressional baseball team, striking four people — including Steve Scalise, the majority whip of the House of Representatives — who were there for a practice.
And on Thursday, the capital’s various institutional forces — senators and lobbyists, staff members with a job to do and residents with an evening to spare — joined, for a moment, in a bipartisan rebuttal: Play ball.
Beneath a mostly cloudless sky, at least by the mid-innings, fans in the stands intermingled red and blue.
Near the dugout, the president’s daughter Ivanka Trump bantered with Chuck Schumer, the Senate’s top Democrat, who chatted with two of her young children.
Nancy Pelosi, the House minority leader, wore a shirt from Louisiana State University, Mr. Scalise’s alma mater.
When a video message from President Trump played on the big screen, some of the Democrats in the crowd booed, but less lustily than usual.
“You are showing the world that we will not be intimidated,” Mr. Trump said.
“The game will go on.”
Some members of Congress had not expected to stay behind for the annual showdown, with families and district business waiting for them.
But by nightfall, the decision was clear.
“We come here, and these members become our family,” Representative John Lewis, Democrat of Georgia, said at the Capitol before a game he had not intended to see.
He spoke of 1968 and of the political violence he had seen up close as a civil rights leader, invoking Martin Luther King Jr. and Robert F. Kennedy.
Mr. Lewis, now 77, stared straight ahead for a moment.
“I have to stay,” he said softly.
All day, before as more than 24,000 ticket holders filed in for the charity game, the shorthand for other tragedies ricocheted through the Capitol.
At work on Thursday, those pangs visited lawmakers like a too-familiar houseguest — stalking them down the Capitol’s corridors, past the Senate chamber where a ferocious health care debate had already resumed, along the hall where some had stood one day earlier as survivors, still in dusted cleats and uniforms, unharmed but unsettled.
The reaction would be different this time, some said.
More sustainable.
It had to be. Probably. Maybe. Right?
“What’s the half-life?” asked Senator Roger Wicker, Republican of Mississippi, appraising how long the comity might last.
“I don’t know. I don’t know.”
The skepticism is near-universal.
Even one day out from the initial anguish, much of the political ecosystem seemed unchanged.
In a Thursday morning tweet, Mr. Trump railed against the “WITCH HUNT” of investigations of his associates.
Elected officials accused one another of hypocrisy and selective memory on matters of policy, perhaps a bit more gently than they might have on a typical weekday.
Senator Rand Paul, Republican of Kentucky, said he was warming up with Sean Hannity, the Fox News host, who is not known for bipartisan spirit.
And Ms. Pelosi could not resist suggesting that Republicans were the initiators of the present rancor.
“Somewhere in the ’90s, Republicans decided on a politics of personal destruction as they went after the Clintons,” she told reporters earlier on Thursday.
Moments later, she added, a bit regretfully: “I really am almost sad for myself that I have gone down this path with you, because I don’t think it’s appropriate for us to have the fullest discussion of it.
It’ll be for another day.”
But for an optimist in the city — and there still seem to be a few — there were flourishes to appreciate.
House interns hauled signs: “Scalise Strong,” “Capitol Police MVP” and “Unvidvided” in red, white, and blue.
Another attendee delivered this message, held aloft: “This Democrat is here to support Congressman Scalise.
Get well soon, sir.”
Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the Democratic whip, resolved to wear a “Team Scalise” shirt to the game.
Ms. Pelosi sat for an interview alongside Speaker Paul D. Ryan, Republican of Wisconsin.
The Senate leaders — Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky, and Mr. Schumer of New York — did the same.
“We don’t dislike each other,” Mr. McConnell said, deploying a rare complimentary double negative.
Among those on the field before the game was Representative Roger Williams, Republican of Texas, whose aide Zachary Barth was shot at the practice.
Mr. Williams, a coach on the team, trudged out on crutches after injuring his foot in the Wednesday morning fray as well.
David Bailey, a Capitol Police officer who was wounded while helping to stop the attack, threw out the ceremonial first pitch.
(The ball was delivered to the mound, in an apparent bit of sponsorship oddity, by a Budweiser Clydesdale.)
Mr. Scalise remained in the hospital on Thursday after a second surgery for internal injuries and a broken leg.
Doctors said his condition was critical but improving.
He received a standing ovation when he was introduced as a team member, with Democrats waving their caps at his image on the screen beyond the outfield fence.
“Maybe with a little more time, the teams would be mixed,” suggested Representative Ted Deutch, Democrat of Florida.
“But at least for now, the healthy competition will bring us together.”
Several elements of the evening did diverge sharply from the ballpark’s standard, professional fare — commonplace for a congressional game that has, since 1909, produced a steady torrent of middling baseball, worse trash talk and more than occasional injury.
By the concessions, attendees discussed field director salaries and legislative wrangling.
Khakis filled the grounds.
A cutout of the head of Representative Tim Ryan, Democrat of Ohio, was held high.
Chants of “We love you, Pelosi!” rang out briefly, until the minority leader acknowledged them.
Supporters from both parties raised hot dogs and beers, catching up on acquaintances in common.
“We’re just one day removed, so it still feels different, I think,” Senator Jeff Flake, Republican of Arizona, said before the game, recalling past tragedies that many swore would reshape the nation’s politics.
“I hope it lasts.”
At the practice on Wednesday, Mr. Flake had raced to Mr. Scalise’s side to provide water and first aid after the shooting stopped.
He set out a goal for himself and his colleagues, uttered before inside the Capitol.
“Tone down our own rhetoric and not ascribe the worst motives to our colleagues,” he said hopefully.
“That can be done.”
For an evening, at least, Washington delivered.
A little before 10 p.m., the Democrats secured their final out for an 11-2 victory, taking a 40-to-39 edge in the lifetime series.
As the players shook hands, the team managers — Representative Mike Doyle, Democrat of Pennsylvania, and Representative Joe L. Barton, Republican of Texas — gathered for closing ceremonies.
Mr. Doyle did not hold the trophy for long.
It was going to Mr. Scalise’s office, they decided, until he gets back.
--- end NYT----

--- start FOX (w error) ----
Lawmakers at the scene of Wednesday’s baseball practice shooting described themselves as “sitting ducks” and said the violence would have been a “massacre” if not for Majority Whip Steve Scalise's detail -- spurring new questions over whether congressional security practices should be overhauled.
Thursday night, the MedStar Washington Hospital Center issued a statement saying Scalise "underwent a second surgery related to his internal injuries and a broken bone in his leg.
He remains in critical condition, but has improved in the last 24 hours.
The Congressman will require additional operations, and will be in the hospital for some time."
Scalise, R-La., like other members of leadership, is assigned a full-time security detail from U.S. Capitol Police, who guard him in Washington and at home in his district.
His detail was credited with putting down the attacker and saving lives.
“If Scalise was not there, he’s the one with security detail, we wouldn’t have had any protection and God knows how bad that might have been,” Rep. Brad Wenstrup, R-Ohio, told "Fox & Friends."
Rep. Dave Brat, R-Va., acknowledged the incident has sparked new security questions for members without assigned police protection at events outside Capitol Hill.
He, along with several other members of Congress, suggested the most critical change may be to boost security for large lawmaker gatherings, even informal ones like the baseball practice in Alexandria, Va.
“We already had concerns and we have great law enforcement at home, first responders do a great job, but this makes you anticipate every event now in a new way,” Brat said on Fox News’ “America’s News HQ” on Wednesday.
(TN) “Forty guys get together at the same time, that would be a major security event normally, but I think we got a little excited and didn’t think things through as well as we could have.”
Brat said lawmakers “may need to recalibrate public events,” while also suggesting “tighter security” at town halls -- which most congressional lawmakers have scheduled through the summer recess.
This year's town halls to date have been particularly rowdy and tense, prompting lawmaker concerns long before Wednesday's attack.
The Wednesday attack injured Scalise; Matt Mika, a lobbyist for Tyson Foods; Zack Barth, a staffer from Texas Rep. Roger Williams’ office; and two U.S. Capitol Police officers, Special Agents Crystal Griner and David Bailey.
“Without Capitol Hill police, it would have been a massacre—we had no defense—we had no defense at all,” Sen. Rand Paul, R-Ky., said on "Fox & Friends."
“We were like sitting ducks.”
Lawmakers have appealed for more security before, including after the 2011 shooting of then-Rep. Gabrielle Giffords.
A detail for every lawmaker is likely not possible -- and security already is provided for major events and lawmakers facing a specific threat.
But there are broad questions at hand in boosting security beyond that: particularly, does it hurt democracy to put an added barrier between lawmakers and constituents?
“I bet most members of Congress would say they don’t want [a] security detail—I sure don’t,” Rep. Mike Doyle, D-Pa., manager of the Democratic congressional baseball team, told reporters.
Former Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich lauded the current system where lawmakers interact with the people on a regular basis in settings like grocery stores.
He said the threat of the "occasional deranged person" should not change that.
“We start surrounding these folks with layers of guards—it will really cripple the ability to be a free society,” he said on “Outnumbered.”
Gingrich added: “We are a free country, and we’re gonna run the risk of freedom.”
Rep. Williams backed Gingrich's comments in a press conference on Capitol Hill Wednesday.
Rogers was injured during the attack when he dove into the dugout “like a pool without water.”
But Williams suggested he would feel “safer” if he were allowed to carry a gun on Capitol Hill, reminding reporters that he’s “a big Second Amendment guy” -- and said “we probably ought to take a look at our security in big groups like that.”
Doyle, too, suggested that could be the solution: “I think when you’re in an area with 30 or 40 members, where anyone can walk through, we need to re-think that—but I think most members would tell you they feel fine and they’re not looking for any security.”
Rep. Thomas Massie, R-K.Y., took calls for additional security a step further on Thursday by re-introducing legislation that would allow those who have concealed carry permits in their home states to carry in Washington D.C.
U.S. Capitol Police have not announced any increased security measures for congressional lawmakers, but said they will “continue to provide a robust and visible presence” around the Capitol.
James Norton, who was deputy assistant secretary at Department of Homeland Security under the George W. Bush administration, told Fox News that staffing each member of Congress with a personal security detail would cost billions and acknowledged the unwillingness of some members to have additional layers of security.
But he said they need to consider “the dangers” that come with public forums.
“You have to consider that there is a lot of information for the public—obviously members want to give as much information as they can—a lot of calendars are broadcast, social media, information is readily available,” Norton said.
“But there are a lot of bad actors out there looking to do harm, and vigilance needs to be taken by each member and their staff.”
Brooke Singman is a Reporter for Fox News.
Follow her on Twitter at @brookefoxnews.
--- end FOX (w error) ----