--- start HPO----
All nine Republican members of the House Intelligence Committee are calling on Rep. Adam Schiff (D-Calif.) to resign as its chairman over his public comments about the Russia investigation, which did not determine that President Donald Trump or anyone on his campaign conspired with Russia to win the 2016 election.
Schiff has maintained his strong belief that the Trump campaign colluded with Russia, after the nearly two-year probe came to an end last week without directly implicating the president.
“Undoubtedly there is collusion,” Schiff told The Washington Post on Tuesday.
“We will continue to investigate the counterintelligence issues.
That is, is the president or people around him compromised in any way by a hostile foreign power? ...
It doesn’t appear that was any part of [special counsel Robert] Mueller’s report.”
In a letter dated Thursday, the GOP committee members accused Schiff of standing “at the center of a well-orchestrated media campaign” about a possible Trump-Russia connection.
The group even went so far as to link Schiff to leaked information about the investigation.
“Your willingness to continue to promote a demonstrably false narrative is alarming,” they said, joining other top Republican lawmakers demanding Schiff’s ouster.
Trump himself called on Schiff to resign Thursday in an early-morning tweet that accused the chairman of “unlawfully lying and leaking” information.
The president said Schiff should be “forced” to step down from Congress entirely.
Somewhat misleadingly, the GOP committee members stated in their letter that Mueller’s findings “conclusively refute” Schiff’s “past and present assertions” about the investigation.
While Mueller says his report “does not conclude that the President committed a crime,” it “also does not exonerate him.”
Questions about what the full report uncovered are still at the forefront of many Democrats’ minds, and the party is uniformly calling for the Justice Department to release it publicly.
The Intelligence Committee Republicans’ letter concluded, “Your actions both past and present are incompatible with your duty as Chairman of this Committee, which alone in the House of Representatives has the obligation and authority to provide effective oversight of the U.S. intelligence community.”
Schiff, in response to his critics, doubled down on his questions about the special counsel’s investigation, which indicted more than 30 people ― including several close to Trump.
“I don’t think it’s OK,” he said Thursday.
“I think it’s immoral. I think it’s unethical. I think it’s unpatriotic, and yes, I think it’s corrupt and evidence of collusion.”
--- end HPO----

--- start NYT----
WASHINGTON — The House Intelligence Committee’s first hearing since Robert S. Mueller III completed his report had barely begun when the panel’s Republicans moved en masse to demand the resignation of the committee’s chairman.
It went downhill from there.
The acrimony on display Thursday as the intelligence committee tried to resume its work on Russia’s intervention in the 2016 presidential election laid bare the bitter divide that persists in Congress even after Mr. Mueller, the special counsel, completed his 22-month investigation of the subject.
The Republican demand and the barbed response of the committee’s chairman, Representative Adam B. Schiff, echoed well outside the wood-paneled House hearing room.
Representative Kevin McCarthy, the House Republican leader, spent much of his weekly news conference comparing Mr. Schiff, a fellow Californian, to Senator Joseph R. McCarthy, who fueled fears in the 1950s that Communist spies had infiltrated the American government.
Representative Michael R. Turner, Republican of Ohio, played the same card in the hearing room, fuming that Mr. Schiff would not accept Attorney General William P. Barr’s word that Mr. Mueller had not found the Trump campaign to have taken part in a conspiracy to undermine the election.
“With McCarthyism,” a senator was “chasing after Russian Communists,” Mr. Turner, an Intelligence Committee member, said.
“Now we have Schiff chasing after Russian collusion.”
Undaunted, Mr. Schiff made clear he was not about to step down, nor was he about to absolve President Trump or his campaign from nefarious conduct with Moscow — especially without seeing Mr. Mueller’s report first.
The Justice Department revealed on Thursday that the report came in at more than 300 pages, raising more questions about what information was behind the four-page summary released by Mr. Barr.
Mr. Schiff had many questions of his own.
“You might think that it’s O.K. that the president’s son-in-law sought to establish a secret back channel of communications with the Russians through a Russian diplomatic facility.
I don’t think that’s O.K. You might think it’s O.K. that an associate of the president made direct contact with the G.R.U. through Guccifer 2.0 and WikiLeaks; that is considered a hostile intelligence agency,” Mr. Schiff said, referring to Russian military intelligence and a Russian intelligence hacker.
He continued: “You might think that it’s O.K. that the national security-designate secretly conferred with the Russian ambassador about undermining U.S. sanctions.
And you might think it’s O.K. he lied about it to the F.B.I. You might say that’s all O.K.
You might say that’s just what you need to do to win.
But I don’t think it’s O.K. I think it’s immoral. I think it’s unethical. I think it’s unpatriotic. And yes, I think it’s corrupt.”
Democrats who now control the House say that they will accept Mr. Mueller’s findings, but as Mr. Schiff’s monologue indicated they are increasingly determined not to let go of what they see as a deeply troubling pattern of wrongdoing by Mr. Trump, his businesses and his administration.
That has in turn enraged Republicans, who have happily embraced what they call Mr. Mueller’s absolution of Mr. Trump.
They say Democrats will stop at nothing to ruin his presidency, and bristle at Democrats accusing them of turning a blind eye to the Russian threat.
And at the center of their wrath is Mr. Schiff, whose doughy-faced demeanor hardly evokes an attack dog.
“The findings of the special counsel conclusively refute your past and present assertions and have exposed you as having abused your position to knowingly promote false information, having damaged the integrity of this committee, and undermined faith in U.S. government institutions,” Representative K. Michael Conaway, Republican of Texas, said to Mr. Schiff.
Reading from a letter signed by every Republican member of the committee, Mr. Conaway added, “Your actions both past and present are incompatible with your duties as chairman of this committee.”
Mr. Trump intervened as well, accusing Mr. Schiff of “knowingly and unlawfully lying and leaking.”
He “should be forced to resign from Congress!” the president wrote on Twitter.
Mr. Schiff, clearly prepared for the ambush, argued that there was a difference between prosecutors proving a criminal conspiracy and the committee investigating evidence of foreign compromise.
The committee’s own investigative work would go on, he signaled, though outside the hearing room he has indicated that work may well need to shift course once Mr. Mueller’s findings are fully understood.
Democrats backed him.
“History will clarify what has happened,” said Representative Jim Himes, Democrat of Connecticut.
Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California praised Mr. Schiff as “calm, professional, patriotic,” and said his work as the chairman of the committee has been “in stark contrast to the irresponsible and almost criminal behavior of the previous chair of the committee,” Representative Devin Nunes, Republican of California.
“What is the president afraid of — that he would go after a chairman of the committee?” she said.
“I think they’re just scaredy-cats.
They just don’t know what to do.”
The party gave Mr. Schiff a more formal nod of confidence this week as well.
On Wednesday, the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, House Democrats’ campaign arm, announced that Mr. Schiff would serve as a key fund-raiser for the caucus’s most vulnerable members to help put together a firewall to project the House majority.
Out of the glare of the television cameras, Democrats are somewhat more circumspect.
“In the heat of the political moment just as the Republicans wanted to try to convict Hillary Clinton in the public sphere, Democrats probably contributed to the expectations that the outcome would be worse for the president than it was,” Mr. Himes said in an interview a day ahead of the hearing.
Notably sitting out the fight was Mr. Nunes, whom Democrats have accused of many of the same abuses that Republicans accused Mr. Schiff of on Thursday and whose resignation they asked for last year.
Mr. Nunes’s sustained work last term to scrutinize the origins of the Russia investigation and accuse federal law enforcement officials of acting out of anti-Trump political bias sent convulsions through what in quieter times is one of Congress’s more bipartisan bodies.
“We should not be used as a platform to spread false information and bizarre conspiracies,” Mr. Nunes said on Thursday in brief remarks before deferring to Mr. Conaway.
Thursday’s showdown came, ironically enough, during a hearing with four subject experts on “Putin’s Playbook: The Kremlin’s Use of Oligarchs, Money and Intelligence in 2016 and Beyond.”
Down the line, the witnesses warned that Vladimir V. Putin’s Russia would only grow bolder in its efforts to destabilize western democracies, including the United States.
“The bad news is that there is a new ideological fight between Putinism and the West, and it has only just begun,” said Michael McFaul, an ambassador to Moscow under former President Barack Obama.
“In my estimation, we as a country are underestimating it.”
The whole episode offered a sharp contrast to the Senate Intelligence Committee, which with a yawning pace and no-leaks team has continued apace with its own Russia investigation.
The committee’s chairman, Senator Richard M. Burr of North Carolina, said this week that he aimed to finish witness interviews in the coming weeks and issue the last in a series of reports on the panel’s findings in the coming months.
On Thursday, as Democrats and Republicans in the House traded recriminations, the Senate panel quietly called back for another interview with Jared Kushner, Mr. Trump’s son-in-law and senior adviser.
--- end NYT----

--- start FOX (w error) ----
Every Republican on the House Intelligence Committee on Thursday demanded Rep. Adam Schiff step down as chairman over the California Democrat’s repeated claims to have evidence of Trump-Russia collusion.
In a letter, obtained by Fox News and signed by every Republican on the committee, the lawmakers slammed Schiff for his claims in the media that there was “more than circumstantial evidence” of collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia.
They repeated their demand in person during a feisty hearing Thursday morning.
“Your actions both past and present are incompatible with your duty as Chairman of this Committee,” the letter stated.
“We have no faith in your ability to discharge your duties in a manner consistent with your Constitutional responsibility and urge your immediate resignation as Chairman of this Committee.”
The letter follows the conclusion of Special Counsel Robert Mueller's Russia probe, which turned up no evidence of collusion between Trump campaign members and Russia during the 2016 presidential election.
President Trump himself went even further than congressional Republicans Thursday morning, tweeting:
“Congressman Adam Schiff, who spent two years knowingly and unlawfully lying and leaking, should be forced to resign from Congress!”
Another top Republican, Sen. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, also lambasted Schiff on Thursday - comparing the California lawmaker to director Oliver Stone.
"He's made some pretty outrageous comments that Mueller could not verify, Graham said.
(FP) "He's getting into conspiracy land and he's acting like an Oliver Stone type figure.
That to me is not helpful to him but I'm not going to ask him to resign for Congress."
Schiff, a vocal critic of the president, has doubled down on his claim that Trump and his administration colluded with foreign powers despite Mueller’s findings.
“Undoubtedly, there is collusion,” Schiff told The Washington Post after Attorney General William Barr's four-page summary of Mueller's investigation was released Sunday.
He told the paper that the question of whether Trump or the people around him were compromised by a hostile foreign power was not in any part of Mueller’s report.
The letter to Schiff was sent as those same Republicans confronted Schiff at the start of a Russia-themed hearing Thursday morning.
Rep. Michael Conaway, R-Texas, attacked Schiff for driving a “false narrative” about collusion between Trump and Russia and “undermining the faith” of the American people.
Conaway then went on to demand Schiff immediately resign his committee chairmanship, saying that Republicans on the committee have “no faith in you.”
Schiff defended himself during Thursday’s hearing – pointing to evidence of Russian hacking during the last presidential election, that Russian operatives offered dirt on Hillary Clinton during the campaign and that members of Trump’s campaign and family took meetings with Russians.
“You might think that’s okay that they lied about the meeting,” Schiff said.
“I don’t think that’s okay.”
Schiff on Monday signed a letter with his fellow House committee chairs demanding the full Mueller report by April 2.
House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., said earlier this week that the mounting calls to remove Schiff were "absolutely ridiculous."
She consulted with Schiff and other committee leaders over the weekend as Barr notified Congress of Mueller's report and summarized the details.
A Pelosi aide said Schiff was being attacked because he's done "an outstanding job."
"Democrats aren't going to be intimidated by the White House or Congressional Republicans," spokeswoman Ashley Etienne said.
"We're not going to be distracted from securing the release of the full Mueller report and the underlying evidence, and we will continue to pursue legitimate oversight because that's what the Constitution requires."
--- end FOX (w error) ----