--- start FOX----
A pending class action lawsuit against Wal-Mart that would be the largest of its kind in U.S. history may soon be dismissed, considering the tenor of oral arguments before the Supreme Court Tuesday.
Although she may ultimately side with the plaintiffs, even Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, an ardent defender of women's rights, expressed some concerns about the particulars of the sex discrimination lawsuit that covers 1.5 million women and could cost the world's largest retailer billions of dollars.
The key vote for a Wal-Mart victory could belong to Justice Anthony Kennedy, who said he was troubled by what he called an inconsistency in the women's lawsuit.
"Number one, you said this is a culture where Arkansas knows, the headquarters knows, everything that's going on," Kennedy told lawyer Joseph Sellers who represents the women.
"Then in the next breath, you say, well, now these (local) supervisors have too much discretion."
The lawsuit alleges that the company's corporate culture, described in court Tuesday as the "Wal-Mart Way," fosters the advancement of male workers over their female counterparts.
It also claims that despite a company policy expressly prohibiting discrimination, local store managers are given too much flexibility in determining salary hikes and job promotions that invariably favor men over women.
This dual argument that confounded Justice Kennedy also drew the ire of Justice Antonin Scalia who said he was whipsawed by the claims.
"If somebody tells you how to exercise discretion, you don't have discretion," he said.
Chief Justice John Roberts also offered his doubts about the merits of lawsuit, suggesting that any discriminatory acts at Wal-Mart are no worse than anywhere else.
"Is it true that Wal-Mart's pay disparity across the company was less than the national average?" he asked.
Sellers said that wasn't a fair comparison because Wal-Mart has an obligation under federal law to make sure its managers do not discriminate.
The case started a decade ago when Wal-Mart worker Betty Dukes said the management at her Pittsburg, Calif., store was bypassing her for promotions.
"I could see the men going forth and the women in the store stayed in the basic positions they were always in," Dukes once told an interviewer.
Her discrimination claims were folded into a class action lawsuit covering all current female Wal-Mart employees and any who worked for the company going back to late 1998.
Two lower courts said the case could move toward trial.
Wal-Mart's appeal is asking the Supreme Court to stop the case from ever getting to a trial judge.
On Tuesday, Dukes walked out of the courthouse full of confidence and poise saying she feels no anger toward her bosses or anyone else.
"Wal-Mart may be a big company and that is no doubt.
But they are not big enough where they can't be challenged in a court of law.
If you do wrong, then you should be held accountable.
From the least of us to the greatest of us."
Dukes's case has drawn the attention of the larger business community who fear that if the justices allow the case to proceed, it will open the doors to more class action lawsuits.
The U.S. Chamber of Commerce and major corporations including Bank of America, General Electric and Microsoft submitted briefs in the case supporting Wal-Mart.
Much of the hour-long argument delved into the tedious details of class action law and if the Wal-Mart women could properly certify their claims into a single case.
Wal-Mart lawyer Theodore Boutrous argued that every member of the class couldn't possibly meet a standard of commonality to justify the lawsuit.
"Our expert's report and testimony showed that at 90 percent of the stores, there was no pay disparity," Boutrous told the court.
"And that's the kind of -- and even putting that aside, the plaintiffs needed to come forward with something that showed that there was this miraculous recurrence at every decision across every store of stereotyping, and the evidence simply doesn't show that."
Another technical concern that appears to work against the women covers the different types of remedies they are seeking.
In addition to the punitive damages they want an injunction that would force Wal-Mart to adopt more stringent anti-discrimination policies.
But those two remedies require different standards for class certification and Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg said it was "a very serious problem" in the case to try and sue for punitive damages after only obtaining certification under the lower threshold required for the injunction.
It's possible that instead of an outright victory for Wal-Mart, the justices could issue a split decision of sorts and allow only the injunction part of the lawsuit to move forward.
That potential ruling would get Wal-Mart off the hook for any financial damages.
--- end FOX----

--- start HPO----
WASHINGTON — The Supreme Court appears ready to block a massive sex discrimination lawsuit against Wal-Mart on behalf of up to 1.6 million women, and that could make it harder for other workers nationwide to bring class-action claims against large employers.
The 10-year-old lawsuit, argued in lively exchanges at the court Tuesday, claims that Wal-Mart Stores Inc., the world's largest employer, favors men over women in pay and promotions.
Billions of dollars are at stake if it is allowed to go forward.
The case also could affect the future of other class-action lawsuits that pool modest individual claims into a single action that creates the potential for a large judgment and increases the pressure on businesses to settle.
In Tuesday's arguments, several justices suggested they were troubled by the case and lower court decisions against Bentonville, Ark.-based Wal-Mart.
Estimates of how many women could be included in the lawsuit run from 500,000 to 1.6 million.
Justice Anthony Kennedy, often a key vote on the high court, said the women's argument points in apparently conflicting directions.
"You said this is a culture where Arkansas knows, the headquarters knows, everything that's going on," Kennedy said to Joseph Sellers, the women's lawyer.
"Then in the next breath, you say, well, now these supervisors have too much discretion.
It seems to me there's an inconsistency there, and I'm just not sure what the unlawful policy is."
Sellers said that lower courts had been persuaded by statistical and other evidence put forth so far in the lawsuit.
He said Wal-Mart's strong corporate culture stereotypes women as less aggressive than men and that translates into individual pay and promotion decisions at the more than 4,300 Wal-Mart and Sam's Club stores across the country.
"The decisions are informed by the values the company provides," Sellers said.
Justice Antonin Scalia said he felt "whipsawed" by Sellers' description.
"Well, which is it?" Scalia asked.
Either individual managers are on their own, "or else a strong corporate culture tells them what to do."
Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg said that at this stage of the lawsuit, the issue is not proving discrimination but showing enough evidence to go forward.
"We're talking about getting a foot in the door," Ginsburg said, a standard she called not hard to meet.
Ginsburg, who made her name as a lawyer by bringing discrimination claims, said it was possible that Wal-Mart could refute the claims at a trial.
The court's other two female justices, Elena Kagan and Sonia Sotomayor, and Justice Stephen Breyer also appeared inclined to allow the lawsuit to proceed.
But several of their more conservative colleagues appeared to agree with Theodore Boutrous Jr., representing Wal-Mart, that even subjecting the company to a trial would be unfair.
That split among the justices raised the prospect of an ideologically divided ruling by the court this summer.
Boutrous said the class-action nature of the case deprives the company of its legal rights because it is being forced to defend the treatment of female employees regardless of the jobs they hold or where they work.
"There is absolutely no way there can be a fair process here," Boutrous said.
He pointed to a group of at least 544 women who serve as store managers who "are alleged to be both discriminators and victims."
Two of the named plaintiffs, Christine Kwapnoski and Betty Dukes, attended the argument.
Kwapnoski is an assistant manager at a Sam's Club in Concord, Calif. Dukes is a greeter at the Wal-Mart in Pittsburg, Calif.
Their situations were discussed only briefly, with Boutrous noting how different they were as a way to argue they should not be dealt with in the same lawsuit.
Business interests have lined up with Wal-Mart while civil rights, women's and consumer groups have sided with the women plaintiffs.
Both sides have painted the case as extremely consequential.
The business community has said that a ruling for the women would lead to a flood of class-action lawsuits based on vague evidence.
Supporters of the women say that if the court sides with Wal-Mart, it could remove a valuable weapon for fighting all sorts of discrimination.
David Sanford, who represents plaintiffs in other class-action cases, said after the arguments that the court seemed inclined to rule against the Wal-Mart women.
Sanford said such a decision could "have implications for class actions more generally, making it more difficult for women and minority groups to enjoy equality and fair treatment in the workplace."
The Obama administration is not taking part in the case, although it was lobbied by both sides.
--- end HPO----

--- start NYT (w error) ----
WASHINGTON — The Supreme Court appeared closely divided on Tuesday during arguments over the theory put forth by the plaintiffs in an enormous sex discrimination class-action case against Wal-Mart.
Even some justices who seemed sympathetic to the plaintiffs expressed qualms about how to administer a lawsuit involving as many as 1.5 million women seeking back pay that could amount to billions of dollars.
Others appeared worried about the consequences for other businesses of a ruling that would allow the case against Wal-Mart to go forward.
The mere certification of a class-action suit can prompt defendants to settle in light of the sums at stake, and the justices struggled to find a way to distinguish between gaps in pay that might have benign explanations and those caused by unlawful discrimination.
The court of Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. has recently issued a series of rulings in favor of plaintiffs suing for employment discrimination that cut against the court’s pro-business reputation.
The Wal-Mart case dwarfs those rulings in importance.
It is the largest employment discrimination class action in history, and the court’s decision, expected by June, will probably be its most important business ruling this term.
The issue before the justices at Tuesday’s arguments was not whether Wal-Mart, the country’s largest retailer and biggest private employer, discriminated against women who worked there.
For now, the question in the case, Wal-Mart Stores v. Dukes, No. 10-277, is whether hundreds of thousands of female workers have enough in common to join together in a single lawsuit.
The plaintiffs’ theory is that a centralized companywide policy gave local managers too much discretion in pay and promotion decisions, leaving Wal-Mart vulnerable to gender stereotypes.
The plaintiffs have presented sworn statements and statistics to support their claim.
Wal-Mart calls that evidence unrepresentative and unreliable.
The company says its policies expressly bar discrimination and promote diversity.
In any event, the company says, the plaintiffs — who worked in 3,400 stores in 170 job classifications — do not have enough in common to warrant class-action treatment.
Justice Anthony M. Kennedy said the theory about how the company discriminated — through a central policy conferring local discretion — was internally inconsistent.
“Your complaint faces in two directions,” he told a lawyer for the plaintiffs.
But Justice Stephen G. Breyer said Wal-Mart could be held accountable if it failed to take action in the face of reports of discrimination from its stores.
“Should central management under the law have withdrawn some of the subjective discretion in order to stop these results?” Justice Breyer asked.
Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg agreed, saying that companies had a responsibility to make sure that women were treated fairly in local workplaces.
And Justice Elena Kagan said that “excessive subjectivity” may be a policy that violates the civil rights laws.
But Justice Antonin Scalia was unconvinced.
“I’m getting whipsawed here,” he told the plaintiffs’ lawyer, Joseph M. Sellers.
“On the one hand, you say the problem is that they were utterly subjective, and on the other hand you say there is strong corporate culture that guides all of this. Well, which is it?”
Mr. Sellers responded that “there is this broad discretion given the managers” but that “they do not make their decisions in a vacuum.” Managers, he went on, “are informed by the company about how to exercise that discretion.”
That did not satisfy Justice Scalia.
“If somebody tells you how to exercise discretion,” he said, “you don’t have discretion.”
Theodore J. Boutrous Jr., a lawyer for Wal-Mart, said the handful of women named as plaintiffs who seek to represent the entire class did not have typical experiences at the company.
(TN) “Each of the plaintiffs have very different stories,” he said.
“One of them was promoted into a managerial position. One was terminated for disciplinary violations. One was promoted and then had a disciplinary problem and then was demoted.”
He added that “this class includes at least 544 store managers who are alleged to be discriminators and victims.”
Several justices had practical concerns.
“What seems to me a very serious problem in this case is, how do you work out the back pay?” Justice Ginsburg asked.
Mr. Sellers said the trial court could rely on statistics culled from company databases, which he said were more reliable than the evidence that might be presented in individualized hearings given the available information about particular pay and promotion decisions.
Memories have faded, he said, and Wal-Mart did not keep good records.
Given that, Mr. Sellers said, Wal-Mart’s personnel decisions were “standardless” and “recordless.”
Justice Kennedy responded with a point about the suitability of the case for class-action treatment.
“If it’s standardless and recordless,” he said, “then why is there commonality?”
Mr. Boutrous said Mr. Sellers was trying to have it both ways.
“The problem here, Mr. Sellers says, is that the records are not available,” Mr. Boutrous said.
“Then he says we’re going to have a proceeding where the district judge relies only on the records that he says are inadequate, to allow a reconstruction of the decision.
That is not a process known to our jurisprudence.
It doesn’t comport with due process.
Several justices voiced concerns about how many companies could be subject to class-action suits if they allowed the case against Wal-Mart to go forward.
“Is it true,” Chief Justice Roberts asked Mr. Sellers, “that Wal-Mart’s pay disparity across the company was less than the national average?”
Mr. Sellers said that was not the appropriate comparison. “The comparison that’s relevant,” he said, “is between men and women and Wal-Mart.”
He added later that “Wal-Mart was behind the other large retailers.”
The chief justice also asked Mr. Sellers “how many examples of abuse of the subjective discrimination delegation need to be shown before you can say that flows from the policy rather than from bad actors?”
After all, he said, “you’re going to have some bad apples” given Wal-Mart’s thousands of stores.
Mr. Sellers responded that “there is no minimum number” in court decisions.
Justices Kennedy and Samuel A. Alito Jr. said they were concerned about companies whose pay and promotion gaps mirror national numbers where there is no proof of a discriminatory policy.
“So, you have the company that is absolutely typical of the entire American work force,” Justice Alito said.
“Then you would say every single company is in violation of Title VII” of the Civil Rights Act?
“That could very well be the case,” Mr. Sellers said.
--- end NYT (w error) ----