--- start HPO----
PHILADELPHIA ― Americans should vote for Hillary Clinton because, unlike Republican nominee Donald Trump, she is a “sane, competent person,” Michael Bloomberg, the former New York mayor and founder of the Bloomberg financial news and information empire, said at the Democratic National Convention Wednesday.
The line was an unscripted addition to a speech in which Bloomberg criticized Democrats, but argued that Trump was a “dangerous demagogue” and a bad businessman who would be a disastrous president.
“I’m a New Yorker,” he said, “and New Yorkers know a con when we see one.”
The billionaire ex-Republican, who has endorsed Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton, made the case that Trump’s career is characterized by a litany of collapses and missteps, and that the Republican presidential nominee’s boasts don’t match reality.
Americans who want a great businessperson in the White House should look for someone who isn’t Trump, Bloomberg said.
“Throughout his career, Trump has left behind a well-documented record of bankruptcies, thousands of lawsuits, angry stockholders and contractors who feel cheated and disillusioned customers who feel ripped off,” Bloomberg said.
“Trump says he wants to run the nation like he’s running his business? God help us.
Bloomberg’s scathing speech seemed designed to chafe Trump’s rawest nerves, mocking Trump’s business prowess, his inheritance from his late father, his ego and his intellect.
“Truth be told, the richest thing about Donald Trump is his hypocrisy,” Bloomberg said.
Trump claims great wealth, but won’t disclose his real net worth and refuses to release his tax returns.
The real-estate developer also reacts defensively when his success is questioned.
Bloomberg ― who rivals Trump in unwavering self-assurance ― favorably compared his own achievements in business and politics with Trump’s.
“We’ve heard a lot of talk in this campaign about needing a leader who understands business.
I couldn’t agree more.
I’ve built a business ― and I didn’t start it with a million-dollar check from my father,” Bloomberg said.
“Because of my success in the private sector, I had the chance to run America’s largest city for 12 years.”
Bloomberg weighed an independent bid for president this year because he objected to both Trump and Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.), Clinton’s primary challenger.
Bloomberg was a vocal critic of the Republican candidate ― his former friend ― long before backing Clinton’s White House run.
The financial industry tycoon ridiculed Trump’s statements on immigration, national security, foreign trade, and his use of overseas labor.
And Bloomberg made dire predictions about the damage a Trump presidency would wreak on virtually every aspect of American life.
“I understand the appeal of a businessman president,” Bloomberg said.
“But Trump’s business plan is a disaster in the making.
He would make it harder for small businesses to compete, do great damage to our economy, threaten the retirement savings of millions of Americans, lead to greater debt and more unemployment, erode our influence around the world and make our communities less safe.”
--- end HPO----

--- start NYT----
Listening to Michael R. Bloomberg rage about Donald J. Trump in his speech at the Democratic National Convention this week — labeling him a public menace and hinting that he was not quite sane — it would be easy to think that the two billionaires had a rift going back many years.
“Trump says he wants to run the nation like he’s run his business,” Mr. Bloomberg said on Wednesday.
“God help us.”
But in all their time in New York City, their interactions have been limited, yet cordial, according to people who know both of them.
They existed in different circles of New York’s ultrarich: Mr. Bloomberg is known as a generous philanthropist; Mr. Trump appears to have been flinty in his giving.
Mr. Bloomberg is a supporter of the arts and aligns himself with Manhattan’s sophisticated cultural scene; Mr. Trump relishes in being crude.
Mr. Bloomberg made his billions in finance and technology; Mr. Trump got his start in real estate before becoming a casino magnate and then a reality-show celebrity.
Mr. Bloomberg is not overly ostentatious for a man of great wealth; Mr. Trump loves to show off his possessions.
“I’ve been by Mike’s side for 19 years, and I’ve never met Donald Trump,” said Kevin Sheekey, an adviser to Mr. Bloomberg, underscoring the extent to which the men were not close.
“Trump hasn’t been part of the business, political or charitable community since the Koch administration.
The only place Mike and Donald would have seen each other is on a golf course or on a TV set.”
On at least a few occasions, Mr. Bloomberg and Mr. Trump met up on the golf links.
In 2007, when Mr. Bloomberg was in the second of his three terms as mayor, the two played together in a charity event at Trump National Golf Club in the city’s northern suburbs.
An article in New York magazine described how Mr. Trump, Mr. Bloomberg, the comedian Billy Crystal and the former New York Yankees manager Joe Torre were set to play together in the lead foursome — but could not agree on who would go first.
“How about the mayor starts it off in honor of the city?” Mr. Trump was quoted as saying, playing peacemaker and showing deference to Mr. Bloomberg.
Mr. Bloomberg also appeared twice on Mr. Trump’s reality TV show, “The Apprentice,” in 2004 and 2008, in part as a way to demonstrate support for the show, which was produced in New York.
And the men have a filial connection: acquaintances said that Mr. Bloomberg’s daughter Georgina is friends with Mr. Trump’s daughter Ivanka.
Mr. Trump, an avid user of Twitter, made positive comments about Mr. Bloomberg when he was in office.
“Mike Bloomberg is doing a great job as mayor of New York City,” he posted in 2012.
In 2013, he praised Mr. Bloomberg’s administration for choosing him to finish a stalled Bronx golf course project, and then wrote on Twitter about a ribbon-cutting with the mayor.
In 2014, Mr. Trump tweeted congratulations at Georgina for winning an equestrian tournament.
But the cordiality dissipated not long after Mr. Trump declared his candidacy.
Mr. Bloomberg began exploring his own presidential bid, as an independent, in part to block Mr. Trump from being elected.
And when Mr. Bloomberg ruled out running, he did so because he said he did not want his third-party candidacy to siphon enough votes to help Mr. Trump.
“As a former Republican presidential campaign manager told me, Hillary has some baggage, but Trump is crazy,” said Mr. Sheekey, who was involved in Mr. Bloomberg’s explorative bid.
“And you can’t fix crazy.”
Mr. Trump, typically, has not shied away from counterattacks.
In a CNN interview in January, Mr. Trump voiced skepticism that Mr. Bloomberg was worth as much as Forbes magazine estimated and speculated that Mr. Bloomberg’s company, which provides data terminals to financial firms and wealthy individuals, was vulnerable to competitors.
“We used to be friends,” Mr. Trump told CNN.
“I guess we’re not friends anymore.”
--- end NYT----

--- start FOX (w error) ----
Former New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg formally endorsed Hillary Clinton Wednesday at the Democratic National Convention, saying it was "imperative" that voters back the former secretary of state over GOP nominee Donald Trump.
"This is just too important to sit out," said Bloomberg, a former Democrat who won New York's mayoralty as a Republican in 2001 before leaving the party to become an independent six years later.
"There are times when I disagree with Hillary," Bloomberg said.
"But let me tell you, whatever our disagreements may be, I’ve come here to say we must put them aside for the good of our country."
Bloomberg, who has an estimated net worth of $48 billion, threw several jabs at Trump, whom he called a "dangerous demagogue" and a "bomb-thrower."
(TP) Bloomberg contrasted his business history with Trump's, saying "I’ve built a business, and I didn’t start it with a million-dollar check from my father."
Bloomberg also charged that Trump had "left behind a well-documented record of bankruptcies and thousands of lawsuits and angry shareholders and contractors who feel cheated and disillusioned customers who feel ripped off."
"Trump says he wants to run the nation like he's running his business?
God help us," said Bloomberg, who added that "the richest thing about Donald Trump is his hypocrisy."
Bloomberg considered making a third-party run for president this year before opting against a campaign, expressing worry he would siphon away votes from Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton and inadvertently help elect Trump.
While in office, Bloomberg had a cordial relationship with Clinton, who, as a senator from New York, was involved in the city's post-9/11 rebuilding effort.
He did, as well, with Trump, whom he knew from New York's glitzy social circuit and from dealings with him as a developer.
But Trump's hardline approach to immigration alienated Bloomberg, who often makes the case that an open immigration policy is needed to keep the nation's economy growing.
He deemed Trump's economic plan "a con" and "a disaster in the making."
Trump did not immediately respond to the speech.
--- end FOX (w error) ----