--- start FOX----
In one of the highest-profile showdowns between establishment Republicans and Tea Party conservatives so far this year, Rep. Raul Labrador said Friday that he is challenging Rep. Kevin McCarthy for the House majority leader position that became open this week.
Labrador, of Idaho, would be the Tea Party alternative to McCarthy, who is the whip and is favored by establishment Republicans.
Only in Congress since 2010, Labrador would represent several firsts: the first Latino, first Mormon and first Idaho lawmaker to be House majority leader.
Labrador’s foray into the race for majority leader is yet another dramatic turn of events for Republicans, who were stunned by the defeat in Tuesday’s primary in Virginia of Rep. Eric Cantor to a Tea Party candidate who cast the congressman as someone who embraces the status quo of Beltway GOP politics and did not truly represent his constituents.
Americans don’t believe their leaders in Washington are listening and now is the time to change that.
And it upends the June 19 voting by the House Republicans for majority leader.
On Friday morning, McCarthy, 49, appeared to be headed toward running unopposed after some rivals dropped out.
“I was stunned when Eric Cantor lost his primary election earlier this week,” Labrador, who is 46, said in his announcement about running for majority leader.
“Eric is a good friend and I have tremendous respect for him.
But the message from Tuesday is clear – Americans are looking for a change in the status quo.”
Some conservatives in the House were pushing for a postponement of the June 19 election for majority leader, saying they wanted more time to put someone with more right-wing views in the running for the position.
“I want a…leadership team that can bring the Republican conference together,” Labrador said in his statement, “A leadership team that can help unite and grow our party.
Americans don’t believe their leaders in Washington are listening and now is the time to change that.”
Some lawmakers pressed Labrador to run, according to several published reports that quoted unnamed sources.
Economics professor Dave Brat, the Tea Party candidate who defeated Cantor, attacked the congressman as soft on border security and on people who come here illegally.
Cantor, who had once been more moderate on immigration issues – particularly on the bitterly divisive aspect of whether to give undocumented immigrants already in the U.S. a chance to legalize their status – shifted sharply to a hard line position, saying he would block any effort in the House to consider proposals to give such immigrants a break.
But some observers said Cantor’s tough stance toward the end of the primary – one he’d seemed confident he’d easily win – was too little too late.
Others say it was Cantor’s lack of popularity in general in his district, and his lackluster campaign, that doomed him.
Nonetheless, many see the next majority leader as potentially influencing the House handling of immigration reform, which stalled as conservative members said they would not support a comprehensive measure for an overhaul of the system, and especially not one that, in their view, would grant amnesty to lawbreakers.
The Senate last year passed a sweeping bipartisan immigration reform bill that both tightened border security and provided a path to legal status for undocumented immigrants who meet a strict set of criteria.
McCarthy, whose district is 35 percent Latino, has expressed support for providing a path to legal status, but only after those applying for it earn it by learning English and paying fines and taxes, among other things.
Labrador, who worked as an immigration attorney before serving in Congress, was part of a bipartisan group in the House that was working on a reform bill.
But Labrador famously quit the group because of a disagreement with its other members over whether to entitle undocumented immigrants to some form of healthcare.
Labrador has not been shy about criticizing House Speaker John Boehner of Ohio, saying that he should step down if he allows a vote on an immigration bill this year.
The Idaho congressman, echoing other conservatives, has said that Congress should wait until at least 2015 to take up the issue again because President Obama must make a clear attempt to take steps to secure the borders and step up interior enforcement of immigration laws.
He has said he will not back a version of the Senate reform bill, and prefers to deal with the subject in a piecemeal fashion.
Labrador supports a path to legal status, but only after evidence that enforcement has been improved, he has said.
He also supports expanding foreign worker visa programs.
Labrador says this about himself on his website: “Born to a single mother in Puerto Rico, Raúl Labrador moved with his mother to the mainland U.S. at age 13.”
“His mother worked many different jobs to make ends meet,” it says.
“Though times were tough, Raúl’s mother often reminded him that if he studied, worked hard, and played by the rules, he could achieve the American Dream.
This encouraged Raúl to never give up on his professional aspirations and personal dreams.”
One of the conservative members in the House who wanted to postpone the June 19 vote for majority leader quickly indicated that for him, Labrador would not do.
Rep. Steve King (R-Iowa), tweeted on Friday "#Labrador is pro amnesty.
If not this year, he has strongly advocated for amnesty next year.
No fair trying to redefine amnesty.”
--- end FOX----

--- start HPO----
A two-term Republican congressman from Idaho with a track record of challenging the House Republican leadership said Friday he would run for the No. 2 job in the chamber.
Raul Labrador, a 46-year-old Mormon father of five, tea party congressman and Puerto Rican-born only child of a single mother, will challenge House Majority Whip Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.) for the position of House majority leader.
It's a long shot bid.
McCarthy, 49, began gathering commitments from other House Republicans on Wednesday, the day after then-Majority Leader Eric Cantor (R-Va.) suffered a stunning loss in the primary for his seat.
In his current role as whip, McCarthy's job is to round up votes from other Republicans.
The election is Thursday -- leaving little time for Labrador to build momentum and peel off votes from McCarthy.
The former immigration attorney stepped forward to run after a number of other conservative House Republicans declined to.
“I was stunned when Eric Cantor lost his primary election earlier this week.
Eric is a good friend and I have tremendous respect for him.
But the message from Tuesday is clear -- Americans are looking for a change in the status quo," Labrador said in a statement.
He also said that he would run for majority leader in hopes of creating "a leadership team that can bring the Republican conference together."
It's a reference to the fact that Labrador is generally respected by both the House leadership and back-bench tea party legislators.
Since the 2010 midterm tea party wave election, the House GOP has contained a bloc of members who have opposed the establishment leadership time and time again.
The tea party group has pulled other legislators to the right on a host of issues, including many related to government spending and debt.
When Cantor lost his seat in a shock result Tuesday, conservatives in the House were not prepared to unite behind a standard-bearer, much less wage an organized effort to whip up votes in support of a candidate for majority leader.
Rep. Jeb Hensarling (R-Texas) was considered a front-runner to challenge McCarthy.
But Hensarling pondered his options for a full day Wednesday, while McCarthy moved quickly to generate support.
On Friday, the Washington Post reported that Hensarling does not plan to run, according to three people familiar with his plans.
Rep. Pete Sessions (R-Texas) was the other conservative alternate to McCarthy, though he is almost as much an establishment character as anyone else in leadership.
He too declined to run, sensing McCarthy's near inevitability.
Rep. Jim Jordan (R-Ohio) also demurred.
The situation left House Speaker John Boehner (R-Ohio) and the rest of the Republican leadership in the House with a problem: The 40 or so hardline tea party members of the House GOP do not want the response to Cantor's loss -- which was driven by grassroots discontent with the establishment -- to simply be more establishment leadership.
This discontent may be satisfied if Rep. Steve Scalise (R-La.) wins his race against Rep. Peter Roskam (R-Ill.) for House majority whip, taking McCarthy's spot.
Members of the tea party caucus also want to vote for a majority leader candidate that they believe in, even if he loses.
House GOP leadership understands that desire, as does Labrador.
A Labrador bid helps all parties regardless of the outcome -- including Labrador himself, since a run will elevate him as a leader inside the House GOP.
There is always a chance that grassroots fervor in support of Labrador could gain a level of intensity that Boehner and McCarthy did not anticipate.
However, there's not a lot of time for that to happen before next Thursday's election, and leadership elections generally are dominated by inside baseball politics and arcane political interests.
In addition, a few of the most hardline House Republicans, such as Rep. Steve King (R-Iowa) and Rep. Michelle Bachmann (R-Minn.) said Thursday that Labrador was not conservative enough on immigration reform.
Labrador is an ambitious, sometimes savvy politician.
He is in Idaho this weekend chairing the state GOP convention.
He also appeared Friday at an event with Sen. Rand Paul (R-Ky.), who offered his support for Labrador's candidacy.
“There really is a question what is the message that’s sent when the voters replace someone in leadership.
They want someone different.
I think Raul brings that," Paul told reporters, according to the Spokesman-Review.
--- end HPO----

--- start NYT (w error) ----
WASHINGTON — Representative Raúl R. Labrador, a Republican of Idaho who has barely served two terms in Congress, jumped into the race for House majority leader on Friday, offering himself as the more conservative alternative who could pull the House rightward in the wake of Representative Eric Cantor’s loss in a primary.
“The message from Tuesday is clear — Americans are looking for a change in the status quo,” Mr. Labrador, a former immigration lawyer elected in the Tea Party wave of 2010, said in a statement.
“President Obama and the Democrats have had their chance and they have failed.
Republicans must be willing to take these challenges head on with new leadership, fresh ideas and a different approach.”
While some of those conservative lawmakers elected in 2010 were hoping that the House leadership elections on Thursday would offer them the chance to reclaim their influence on Capitol Hill, few of them give Mr. Labrador much of a chance against the current House majority whip, Representative Kevin McCarthy of California.
Though Tea Party activists provided the energy and votes for Mr. Cantor’s ouster, the elections might be more of a plea for a place at the leadership table.
Supporters of Mr. McCarthy, who confidently traveled home to his district in Bakersfield for the weekend, said Friday that the Californian had all but sewed up the votes he needs.
“We have got to have an alternative,” Representative Louie Gohmert, Republican of Texas, said on Glenn Beck’s conservative radio show.
“I mean, for us as a party in Congress to send the message that we didn’t learn a blessed thing from this amazing election result, we aren’t paying attention.”
House conservatives — lacking a rationale to fight Mr. McCarthy, a well-liked member of leadership who has raised millions of dollars for Republican incumbents — have begun protesting that his voting record is actually to the left of Mr. Cantor’s.
FreedomWorks, which has provided financial support for Tea Party candidates, immediately began trying to generate support for Mr. Labrador through its websites and email lists.
“Now that grass-roots conservatives FIRED Eric Cantor, we need a new majority leader in the House of Representatives,” FreedomWorks’ website said Friday.
Matt Kibbe, the group’s president and chief executive, said that he did not have great qualms with Mr. McCarthy’s ideology, but that he was more about politics than ideas.
“The Republican penchant for just choosing the next guy in line hasn’t proven to be a great strategy, and it hasn’t picked good leadership,” Mr. Kibbe said.
But Mr. Labrador’s path to victory is steep, especially in the few days before House Republicans gather to elect Mr. Cantor’s replacement.
Mr. McCarthy has been preparing for months to move up from No. 3 in the Republican leadership to No. 2 in the event that Speaker John A. Boehner of Ohio would retire after the November elections.
Conservative Republicans in the House pleaded Friday for a delay in the voting.
Some grumbled that the campaign by the college professor David Brat to unseat Mr. Cantor had ousted the one member of House Republican leadership willing to listen to the House’s most conservative members.
Instead, the House will end up elevating a leader with a less conservative record and less patience for the far-right flank.
(TN) For his part, Mr. Boehner has remained firm that he wanted to get it done quickly and minimize disruption.
Mr. McCarthy spent much of the day calling members and shoring up support, said a Republican aide close to the majority whip.
McCarthy supporters predicted that Mr. Labrador would muster no more than a few dozen votes.
Some lawmakers questioned whether his run was really a quest to win the majority leader’s post or merely to raise his own profile.
His decision to jump in was widely seen as proof that more experienced conservative members, like Representatives Jim Jordan of Ohio or Tom Price of Georgia, had rebuffed overtures to run from other conservatives.
Tea Party groups off Capitol Hill may believe Mr. Labrador can win, and they will pressure House conservatives to join the campaign.
But ultimately, supporting him could hurt more conservative members with the House leadership.
Mr. Labrador tried on Friday to at least engage the Republican conference in a debate over ideas.
He said the party needed to address issues like upward income mobility among the poor and middle-class economic insecurity.
Born the son of a single mother in Puerto Rico, he has seen himself as an ambassador to young and minority voters out of reach to traditional Republicans.
“I am running for majority leader because I want to help create a vision of growth and opportunity for everyone and start getting to work for the American people,” he said.
Representative Justin Amash, Republican of Michigan, rushed to champion Mr. Labrador’s candidacy.
Mr. Amash, after all, voted last year to make him speaker of the House.
“We can’t respond to a stunning loss by giving a pat on the back and promotion to the same team,” Mr. Amash said of Mr. Cantor’s defeat.
“It’s time for someone new, someone conservative, someone who will put forward a fresh agenda, and someone we know is a proven and talented spokesman. That man is Raúl Labrador.”
--- end NYT (w error) ----