--- start FOX----
WASHINGTON -- Real estate tycoon Donald Trump said Thursday he has doubts about whether President Obama was born in the United States and has sent investigators to Hawaii looking for answers.
The "Celebrity Apprentice" star has shot up in the polls as a potential GOP nominee, in part because of his questions about whether Obama is constitutionally allowed to be president if he doesn't prove he is a natural-born citizen of the United States.
"I have people that actually have been studying it and they cannot believe what they're finding," Trump told NBC's "Today" show on Thursday.
Officials in Hawaii have certified Obama's citizenship, but a segment of society -- labeled "birthers" in the vernacular -- have demanded additional proof.
Trump said when he started seriously considering a presidential bid a few weeks back, he thought the president was native-born, but now he's not so sure.
"His grandmother in Kenya said he was born in Kenya, and she was there and witnessed the birth.
He doesn't have a birth certificate or he hasn't shown it.
He has what's called a certificate of live birth.
That is something that's easy to get," Trump said, arguing that Obama has spent $2 million in legal fees "to get away from this issue."
Calling it potentially one of the biggest scams in the history of politics, Trump said he'd like Obama to show his birth certificate.
"And to be honest with you, I hope he can," he told "Today."
Trump, who placed second in an NBC/ Wall Street Journal poll of potential 2012 Republican candidates, said he will decide by June whether to run, and if he is the GOP nominee, "I'd like to beat him straight up," not on the basis of the question of where Obama was born.
In the poll, former Massachusetts Gov. Mitt Romney leads the would-be group of contenders with 21 percent of Republican primary voters surveyed followed by Trump and former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee at 17 percent each.
The Republican primary poll was taken as part of a March 31-April 4 survey of 1,000 adults, but the sample survey of Republican primary voters polled was only 238.
In the poll, former House Speaker Newt Gingrich garnered 11 percent, while former Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin earned 10 percent support.
Former Minnesota Gov. Tim Pawlenty earned 6 percent, Minnesota Congresswoman Michele Bachmann got 5 percent, former Pennsylvania Sen. Rick Santorum won 3 percent and Mississippi Gov. Haley Barbour received 1 percent support.
Asked in the interview how genuine his presidential ambition is, Trump, who would have to hand over the reins of his international empire in order to run the country, said, "I always take things seriously, but I've never taken it seriously like this.
I wish I didn't have to do it."
But speaking on ABC News, New Jersey Republican Gov. Chris Christie, who is insistent he personally is not a candidate for president in 2012, said he wasn't sure his friend Trump would be either.
"Donald's a really good friend of mine, I don't know that Donald really wants to be president," Christie said in an interview that aired Wednesday night.
Christie: I don't know that he wants that in particular.
... We've spoken about it and all I could say to you is, I’ll believe it when I see it."
Back on NBC, Trump said he wants Obama to do well, but the presidency is not going that direction.
"I love this country, but this country is going to hell. ...
The world laughs at us. They won't be laughing if I'm elected president," he said.
Trump accused Obama of conducting a confusing policy on the civil war in Libya, saying "nobody knows what's happening, and now it looks like (Libyan strongman Muammar) al-Qaddafi is going to beat the United States."
"I'm only interested in Libya if we get the oil," Trump said.
He said Obama "doesn't have a doctrine (on foreign affairs.)
Foreign affairs is, we take care of ourselves first."
--- end FOX----

--- start NYT----
Donald Trump is investing more in the conspiracy theories about President Obama’s birth certificate as he explores his own bid for the presidency.
In his latest embrace of the birther strategy, Mr. Trump has invited Tea Party leaders and a legislator from Arizona to his office in Manhattan on Friday morning to discuss a bill moving through the Arizona legislature that would require candidates for president to prove that they are natural born citizens.
The Arizona group said the call from Mr. Trump on Wednesday came unexpectedly, and the group had spent much of the day Thursday scurrying to make travel arrangements to New York.
“Of course I was surprised, who wouldn’t be?” said the legislator, Representative Carl Seel.
“I’m honored to get the ability to meet with him and discuss it, and I want to thank him for being such a supporter of this issue.”
In an interview shown Thursday on the “Today” show, Mr. Trump told Meredith Vieira that he had “real doubts” about whether Mr. Obama was born in this country, and that he has sent his own investigators to Hawaii to research the issue.
An NBC News/Wall Street Journal poll showed Mr. Trump as the most favored candidate among Republicans who consider themselves Tea Party supporters.
Mr. Obama has shown a certificate of live birth from Hawaii, which is the standard form of birth certificate in the state, and state officials – including the Republican who was governor during the 2008 campaign – have confirmed its authenticity.
Several conservatives, including Glenn Beck and Bill O’Reilly, have criticized Mr. Trump for raising questions about it.
But polls show that many Republicans continue to believe that Mr. Obama was not born in this country, and therefore is not eligible to be president.
Kelly Townsend, a founder of the Greater Phoenix Tea Party, said Mr. Trump told them that he was interested in learning more about the legislation in Arizona.
The bill, which has been approved by committees of the House and Senate, allows great latitude to the secretary of state in denying a presidential candidate a spot on the ballot, saying that the secretary can do so if he or she believes that the documents do not prove citizenship.
“It’s not a birther bill,” Ms. Townsend said.
“It’s not about Mr. Obama. It’s about preventing any questions from coming up in the future, putting something in place so no one could question it.”
But a release from Mr. Seel’s office about the planned meeting noted that Mr. Trump “has brought the issue of President Barack Obama failing to provide a birth certificate front and center recently.”
Ms. Townsend said she had her own agenda for the meeting at Trump Tower.
“I want to invite him to Arizona to talk to people and to meet our leaders,” she said.
“I think he’d have a good audience with Tea Partiers.”
--- end NYT----

--- start HPO (w error) ----
WASHINGTON — Real estate tycoon Donald Trump said Thursday he hopes questions surrounding Barack Obama’s U.S. citizenship won’t be the defining issue if he’s chosen as the Republican candidate to challenge the president’s re-election.
Trump told NBC News in an interview that plans to decide by June whether to run.
He said that if he’s nominated, “I’d like to beat him straight up,” not on the basis of the birth issue.
A national NBC/WSJ poll released yesterday shows Trump tied for 2nd with Mike Huckabee in the 2012 GOP primary field at 17 percent (Mitt Romney leads the pack at 21 percent).
NBC further notes, “Strikingly, Trump . . . finishes first among Tea Party supporters (at 20 percent), followed by Romney (17 percent), Huckabee (14 percent), Palin (12 percent) and Gingrich (9 percent).”
Trump said he didn't introduce the citizenship issue, but was asked about it during an interview a month ago.
Since then, he said he's looked into it and believes "there is a big possibility" Obama may have violated the Constitution.
"I want to see the birth certificate," said Trump in an interview on NBC's "Today" show, according to TIME.
(TP) "How come his own family doesn't know which hospital he was born in?
How come-- forget about birth certificates. Let's say there's no birth certificate.
How come in the hospital itself, okay? This is one of the...in the hospital itself, there's no records of his birth.
In other words, it doesn't say how much they paid, where is the doctor, here's your room bill."
Officials in Hawaii have certified that Obama was born in that state.
But "birthers" have demanded additional proof, asserting he could have been born in Kenya.
"I'm not convinced that he has one," Trump said of the birth certificate issue.
"Today" show host Meredith Vieira asked Trump, "You've been privy to all of this to know this?"
His response: "Well, I have people that actually have been studying it and they cannot believe what they're talking."
The remarks from the potential presidential candidate prompted Vieira to ask Trump if he had people on the ground in Hawaii searching for proof of the president's citizenship.
He signaled he did, saying, "And they cannot believe what they're finding. And I'm serious."
When asked how genuine his presidential ambition is, Trump said, "I always take things seriously, but I've never taken it seriously like this."
"I wish I didn't have to do it," he said.
"I wish this was the greatest place in the world," Trump said, but he also said jobs are disappearing in the United States and that Obama has given the country "a terrible presidency."
Trump said that if the current fight over budget issues forces a shutdown, "I think the president will be blamed."
He accused Obama of carrying out a confusing policy on the civil war in Libya, saying "nobody knows what's happening, and now it looks like (Libyan strongman Moammar) Gadhafi is going to beat the United States."
"I'm only interested in Libya if we get the oil," Trump said.
He said Obama "doesn't have a doctrine (on foreign affairs.)
Foreign affairs is, we take care of ourselves first"
Of Obama, he said, "I want him to do well. ...
I love this country, but this country is going to hell. ...
The world laughs at us. They won't be laughing if I'm elected president."
--- end HPO (w error) ----