--- start HPO----
WASHINGTON -- Former Rep. Jesse Jackson Jr. (D-Ill.) pleaded guilty in a federal courtroom Wednesday morning to using campaign funds to purchase an array of personal items including Bruce Lee memorabilia, a $43,000 Rolex watch and a mink cashmere cape.
He pleaded guilty to conspiracy before U.S. District Judge Robert L. Wilkins.
His wife, Sandra Jackson, who resigned from her position on Chicago’s city council, is expected to plead guilty to filing false tax returns before the same judge on Wednesday afternoon.
Jackson, dressed in a blue tie, blue shirt and a blue suit, looked back in the direction of his father and wife several times during the hearing.
At one point he appeared to mouth, "I'm sorry."
The former representative, who co-wrote a 1999 book with his father, Rev. Jesse Jackson, titled It's About the Money!: How You Can Get Out of Debt, Build Wealth, and Achieve Your Financial Dreams, was accused of spending $750,000 in campaign funds on personal items for himself and for his wife.
Jackson said he was clearheaded and had not been under treatment for alcohol or drug abuse, though he did have a beer last night.
He said he had never been more clear in his life, and had read the documents thoroughly and had understood the consequences of his actions.
He acknowledged he "used money that shouldn't have been used," calling the government's statement accurate and saying he had "no interest in wasting the taxpayers' time or money."
The judge set the sentencing for June 28 at 2 p.m. Jackson will be free to go after he surrenders his passport, and will be restricted to living in the D.C. or Chicago area.
The former national co-chairman of President Barack Obama’s 2008 presidential campaign, Jackson was first elected to office in 1995 and resigned from Congress last year amid a federal investigation and his treatment for bipolar disorder.
In a statement issued by his lawyers on Friday after court records indicated he planned a guilty plea, Jackson said he had “no excuses” for his conduct and “fully accept my responsibility for the improper decisions and mistakes I have made.”
UPDATE 2:52 p.m. -- Additional records disclosed Wednesday revealed that expenses charged by Jackson and his wife to his campaign included $4,272.78 on the Navigator of the Seas cruise, $2,306.08 at Walt Disney World, over $10,000 at Best Buy, over $300 at Build-A-Bear, $3,544.00 at Mariel's Boutique, and $5,687.75 on Martha's Vineyard Holistic Retreat.
The personal expenses at nightclubs and lounges topped $60,000, while personal dry-cleaning expenses topped $14,000.
--- end HPO----

--- start NYT----
WASHINGTON — Jesse L. Jackson Jr., the former Democratic representative from Illinois, pleaded guilty on Wednesday to one felony fraud count in connection with his use of $750,000 in campaign money to pay for living expenses and buy items like stuffed animals, elk heads and fur capes.
As part of a plea agreement, prosecutors recommended that Mr. Jackson receive a sentence of 46 to 57 months in prison.
The federal judge overseeing the case, Robert L. Wilkins, is scheduled to sentence Mr. Jackson on June 28.
“For years I lived off my campaign,” Mr. Jackson, 47, said in response to questions from the judge about the plea.
“I used money I shouldn’t have used for personal purposes.”
At one point during the hearing, the judge stopped his questioning of Mr. Jackson, who was crying, so that he could be given a tissue.
“Guilty, Your Honor — I misled the American people,” Mr. Jackson said when asked whether he would accept the plea deal.
Mr. Jackson’s father, the Rev. Jesse L. Jackson, his mother and several brothers and sisters accompanied him to the hearing.
Mr. Jackson’s wife, Sandi, also accompanied him, and later in the day she pleaded guilty to a charge that she filed false income tax statements during the time that Mr. Jackson was dipping into his campaign treasury.
Prosecutors said they would seek to have her sentenced to 18 to 24 months.
Mr. Jackson’s plea was yet another chapter in the downward spiral of his career.
Elected to Congress in 1995 at the age of 30 from a district that includes part of the South Side of Chicago, Mr. Jackson was once one of the most prominent young black politicians in the country, working on issues related to health care and education for the poor.
But as the federal authorities investigated Gov. Rod R. Blagojevich of Illinois over his efforts to sell the Senate seat that President Obama vacated in 2008, they uncovered evidence that one of Mr. Jackson’s friends had offered to make a contribution to Mr. Blagojevich’s campaign in exchange for the seat.
Since then, Mr. Jackson, who has said he had no knowledge of the offer, has been dogged by questions about his ethics.
Last summer, Mr. Jackson took a medical leave from Congress and was later treated for bipolar disorder.
After winning re-election in November, he resigned, citing his health and the federal investigation into his use of campaign money.
After the hearing, Mr. Jackson’s lawyer, Reid H. Weingarten, said his client had “come to terms with his misconduct.”
Mr. Weingarten said that Mr. Jackson had serious health issues that “directly related” to his conduct.
“That’s not an excuse, it’s just a fact,” Mr. Weingarten said.
Court papers released by federal prosecutors on Wednesday provided new details about how Mr. Jackson and his wife used the $750,000 in campaign money to finance their lavish lifestyle.
From 2007 to 2011, Mr. Jackson bought $10,977.74 worth of televisions, DVD players and DVDs at Best Buy, according to the documents.
In 2008, Mr. Jackson used the money for things like a $466.30 dinner at CityZen in the Mandarin Oriental in Washington and a $5,587.75 vacation at the Martha’s Vineyard Holistic Retreat, the document said.
On at least two instances, Mr. Jackson and his wife used campaign money at Build-A-Bear Workshop, a store where patrons can create stuffed animals.
From December 2007 through December 2008, the Jacksons spent $313.89 on “stuffed animals and accessories for stuffed animals” from Build-A-Bear, according to the documents.
One of the more exotic items they bought was an elk head from a taxidermist in Montana.
According to the documents, Mr. Jackson arranged in March 2011 to have $7,000 paid to the taxidermist, with much of the money coming from a campaign account, and it was shipped a month later to Mr. Jackson’s Congressional office.
A year later, Mr. Jackson’s wife, knowing that the elk head had been bought with campaign money, had it moved from Washington to Chicago, and she asked a Congressional staff member to sell it, the documents say.
In August 2012, the staff member sold the elk head for $5,300 to an interior designer and had the money wired to one of Mr. Jackson’s accounts.
What the staff member did not know was that the interior designer was actually an undercover F.B.I. employee who was investigating the Jacksons, the documents say.
Documents released on Friday showed how Mr. Jackson used his campaign money to buy items like fur capes, celebrity memorabilia and expensive furniture.
Among those items were a $5,000 football signed by American presidents and two hats that once belonged to Michael Jackson, including a $4,600 fedora.
--- end NYT----

--- start FOX (w error) ----
Former Rep. Jesse Jackson Jr. pleaded guilty Wednesday in federal court to charges that he spent $750,000 in campaign cash on personal items.
The Illinois Democrat faces up to five years in prison, but guidelines recommend slightly less.
Sentencing has been set for June 28.
“I truly understand the consequences of my actions and of the preceding,” Jackson said through tears.
“I did these things. … I used money that should have been used for my campaign.”
Federal prosecutors say Jackson, who resigned from Congress in November amid the investigation and health issues, used campaign money to buy items including a $43,350 gold-plated men's Rolex watch and $9,587.64 worth of children's furniture.
He and his wife, Sandra, had agreed to plead guilty in deals with federal prosecutors.
Jackson's guilty plea was to a conspiracy charge.
His wife later pleaded guilty Wednesday to a charge of filing false joint federal income tax returns for the years 2006 through 2011 that knowingly understated the income the couple received.
Jackson told the judge that he had been hospitalized for psychological issues.
The whole hearing lasted about 50 minutes.
"Not a proud day," he said. "I'm sorry I let everybody down."
(TN) The Jacksons were appearing separately before U.S. District Judge Robert L. Wilkins in Washington, D.C. Jackson's wife spent $5,150 on fur capes and parkas, court documents said.
When prosecutors charged the couple last Friday, the ex-congressman said he fully accepts the responsibility for the improper decisions and mistakes he has made.
Tom Kirsch, an attorney for Jackson's wife, said she has signed a plea agreement with federal prosecutors and would plead guilty to one tax count.
The conspiracy charge against the former congressman carries a maximum statutory penalty of up to five years in prison, a fine of up to $250,000, and other penalties.
The charge against Sandra Jackson carries a maximum of three years in prison.
However, one of her lawyers, Tom Kirsch, says the plea agreement "does not contemplate a sentence of that length."
Sandra Jackson was a Chicago alderman before she resigned last month during the federal investigation.
In court papers filed against Jackson on Friday, prosecutors said that upon conviction he must forfeit $750,000, plus tens of thousands of dollars' worth of memorabilia items and furs.
The memorabilia includes a football signed by U.S. presidents, a Michael Jackson fedora, and memorabilia of Martin Luther King Jr., Malcolm X, Jimi Hendrix and Bruce Lee -- all from a company called Antiquities of Nevada.
As the hearing for Jackson got under way Wednesday, newly filed court papers disclosed that the judge had offered to disqualify himself from handling the cases against Jackson and his wife.
As a Harvard Law School student, Wilkins said he had supported the presidential campaign of Jackson's father, civil rights leader Rev. Jesse Jackson, and that as an attorney in 1999, Wilkins had been a guest on a show hosted by Jackson's father.
In the newly filed court papers, prosecutors and lawyers for both Jesse Jackson Jr. and Sandra Jackson said they were willing to proceed with the cases with Wilkins presiding.
Judicial ethics require that a judge disqualify himself if his impartiality might reasonably be questioned.
--- end FOX (w error) ----