--- start FOX----
Down in the polls, Texas Gov. Rick Perry is on the attack, claiming in a new TV ad that President Obama is waging a "War on Religion," and he's the GOP candidate that can defend faith in America.
"I'm not ashamed to admit that I'm a Christian, but you don't need to be in the pew every Sunday to know there's something wrong in this country when gays can serve openly in the military but our kids can't openly celebrate Christmas or pray in school.
As President, I'll end Obama's war on religion.
And I'll fight against liberal attacks on our religious heritage," says Perry in the new ad titled "Strong."
The ad is a state-wide buy in Iowa that starts Wednesday.
Perry ties his faith to his conservative stands on social issues, and the campaign has zeroed in on gay marriage and social issues recently, releasing several statements laying out its argument that Obama is attacking the fundamentals social conservative believe in.
The arguments range from President Obama directing the Justice Department to stop arguing for the Defense of Marriage Act, to less substantive examples like Obama leaving God out of his Thanksgiving speech this year.
In one emailed statement, Perry stated, "just when you thought Barack Obama couldn't get any more out of touch with America's values, AP reports his administration wants to make foreign aid decisions based on gay rights.
This administration's war on traditional American values must stop.
This is just the most recent example of an administration at war with people of faith in this country.
Investing tax dollars promoting a lifestyle many Americas of faith find so deeply objectionable is wrong.
"Perry is referring to a presidential memorandum released by the White House, in which Obama has directed all agencies working abroad ensure U.S. diplomacy and aid programs "promote and protect" the rights of gays and lesbians.
Perry is a Methodist.
He has never shied away from his faith during this campaign, and in earlier appeal to key evangelical voters, he released another ad in Iowa describing himself as a "man of faith."
This latest ad "Strong" ends with Perry claiming, "faith made America strong.
It can make her strong again."
--- end FOX----

--- start NYT----
In an appeal to hard-right conservatives, Gov. Rick Perry of Texas is broadcasting a new campaign ad that seems to contrast Christianity with homosexuality, vows to end what he calls “Obama’s war on religion,” and highlights Mr. Perry’s criticism of overturning the “don’t ask, don’t tell” policy for gays serving in the military.
“I’m not ashamed to admit that I’m a Christian,” Mr. Perry says in the ad, “but you don’t need to be in the pew every Sunday to know there’s something wrong in this country when gays can serve openly in the military but our kids can’t openly celebrate Christmas or pray in school.”
The Perry campaign did not say where the ad would run, but the focus of Mr. Perry’s multimillion-dollar television budget has been in Iowa, where large numbers of Republican caucusgoers describe themselves as Christian evangelicals.
The new ad follows Mr. Perry’s statement on Tuesday criticizing the Obama administration’s announcement that the United States would use all the elements of diplomacy, including the possible granting of foreign aid, to promote gay rights around the world and beat back efforts in other nations to criminalize homosexual conduct.
“As president, I’ll end Obama’s war on religion,” Mr. Perry also says in the ad.
“And I’ll fight against liberal attacks on our religious heritage.
Faith made America strong. It can make her strong again.”
The Perry ad was denounced by the Log Cabin Republicans, a gay men and lesbian group, which said it was “wrong for Governor Perry to assume being a person of faith does not afford one to support equality.”
R. Clarke Cooper, the group’s executive director, said, “Governor Perry is running to be commander-in-chief, not theocrat-in-chief.”
He added, “Our nation was built upon individual liberty and individual responsibility, and open service by gay and lesbian servicemembers is directly in line with the vision of our founding fathers.”
--- end NYT----

--- start HPO (w error) ----
Republican presidential candidate Rick Perry pledges to end "[President Barack] Obama's war on religion" in a new television ad airing in Iowa, railing against open service of gays and lesbians in the military and the prohibition against prayer in public schools.
"I'm not ashamed to admit I'm a Christian," says Perry.
"But you don't need to be in the pews every Sunday to know that there's something wrong in this country when gays can serve openly in the military but our kids can't openly celebrate Christmas or pray in school."
"As president, I'll end Obama's war on religion and I'll fight against liberal attacks on our religious heritage," the Texas governor continues.
(TN) "Faith made America strong. It can make her strong again."
Perry has recently stepped up his attacks on Obama for cultural issues.
In a statement released Tuesday, he decried the Obama administration’s decision to use foreign aid to promote rights for gays and lesbians abroad.
"This is just the most recent example of an administration at war with people of faith in this country," he said.
"Investing tax dollars promoting a lifestyle many Americas of faith find so deeply objectionable is wrong.
President Obama has again mistaken America's tolerance for different lifestyles with an endorsement of those lifestyles."
Politico reported Tuesday that Perry bought $1 million in broadcast television time ahead of the Jan. 3 caucuses.
The Dallas Morning Newsrecently reported that his presidential campaign plans to bring "more than 600 influential Texans" to Iowa in December.
However, Perry netted just six percent support among likely Republican caucus-goers, according to a Des Moines Register poll released Saturday.
--- end HPO (w error) ----