--- start HPO----
WASHINGTON -- Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer (R) announced her decision to veto legislation on Wednesday that would have allowed businesses to legally refuse service to anyone on "religious freedom" grounds, effectively allowing them to discriminate against same-sex couples.
Brewer said the bill had "the potential to create more problems than it purports to solve."
"Senate Bill 1062 does not address a specific or present concern related to religious liberty in Arizona," she said.
"I have not heard one example where business owners' religious liberty has been violated."
The state legislature passed the bill, known as SB 1062, last week.
But in recent days, it has come under intense criticism from activists, lawmakers and business interests both in Arizona and nationally.
The state's two Republican senators, Jeff Flake and John McCain, called on Brewer to veto it, and major corporations like Marriott, Apple and American Airlines all wrote to the governor and expressed their opposition.
Businesses in the Phoenix area were also especially worried, with the Super Bowl set to be held in Glendale, Ariz. in 2015.
On Monday, the Arizona Super Bowl Host Committee came out against SB 1062, stating, "[W]e have heard loud and clear from our various stakeholders that adoption of this legislation would not only run contrary to that goal but deal a significant blow to the state's economic growth potential.
We do not support this legislation."
Arizona hasn't been the only state pushing a bill that would allow open discrimination against same-sex couples; similar bills have been popping up in states including Tennessee, Kansas, South Dakota and Maine.
CORRECTION: This article originally said the Super Bowl is set to be held in Tempe, Ariz.
It will be held in Glendale, Ariz.
--- end HPO----

--- start NYT----
PHOENIX — As the Arizona Legislature sent a bill to her desk Monday that would grant business owners the right to invoke religion to refuse service to gays and others, Gov. Jan Brewer, a Republican, faced pressure from many corners to veto the measure, which has cast unwanted national attention on Arizona.
Elected officials, civic leaders and business groups spoke out publicly against the measure, which passed both houses of the Legislature on Thursday.
On Twitter, Arizona’s United States senators, John McCain and Jeff Flake, also Republicans, had nearly identical posts, with both of them saying they hoped Ms. Brewer would veto the bill.
An executive from Apple Inc., which plans to build a big manufacturing plant in Mesa, called Ms. Brewer to urge her to reject it, and W. Douglas Parker, chairman and chief executive of American Airlines, sent her a letter citing the state’s “economic comeback” and saying, “There is genuine concern throughout the business community that this bill, if signed into law, would jeopardize all that has been accomplished so far.”
Their calls were echoed by three Republican state senators — Adam Driggs, Steve Pierce and Bob Worsley, all members of the party’s conservative camp — who had helped pass the legislation in the first place.
“While our sincere intent in voting for this bill was to create a shield for all citizens’ religious liberties, the bill has instead been mischaracterized by its opponents as a sword of religious intolerance,” the senators said in a letter to Ms. Brewer, adding that the matter was “causing our state immeasurable harm.”
The bill’s remaining supporters took to the airwaves and the Internet to defend it.
Cathi Herrod, president of the Center for Arizona Policy, an architect of the bill, issued a news release calling attacks on the legislation “politics at its absolute worse,” and saying, “Instead of having an honest discussion about the true meaning of religious liberty, opponents of the bill have hijacked this discussion through lies, personal attacks, and irresponsible reporting.”
Ms. Brewer was in Washington on Monday but was scheduled to return Tuesday to Phoenix, where she will have until the end of the week to act on the bill.
Her spokesman, Andrew Wilder, suggested that she would not take that long, but he would not say what she was inclined to do.
The religion bill comes as Arizona prepares to host the Super Bowl next year and struggles to regain its economic vitality.
From Washington on Monday, Gov. Jack Markell of Delaware, a Democrat, told Ronan Farrow of MSNBC that if Ms. Brewer signs the measure, “the N.F.L. may be looking, or maybe should be looking, to move the Super Bowl out of the state.”
And Barry Broome, president and chief executive of the Greater Phoenix Economic Council, said that leaders of four companies looking to relocate to Arizona had put his organization on notice, saying they might reconsider if the bill became law.
The state’s image is still scarred by a divisive immigration law passed in 2010, which gave police officers the ability to stop people whom they suspected of being in the country illegally, and triggered widespread boycotts.
Among the Republicans vying to succeed Ms. Brewer, who cannot run for re-election because of term limits, there was broad consensus against the measure, which would expand the state’s definition of “exercise of religion” to protect businesses and citizens from lawsuits after denying services on religious grounds.
One candidate, Scott Smith, the mayor of Mesa, who is a Mormon, said that the bill “gives carte blanche for anybody to discriminate under the guise of religion.”
Another candidate, Doug Ducey, the state treasurer, qualified his view, saying that he would veto the bill but then “bring together all the interested parties before this legislative session adjourns to forge consensus on acceptable language protecting religious liberty.”
Mr. Wilder, the governor’s spokesman, said Ms. Brewer’s office had received more than 10,000 calls and emails on the matter as of Monday morning.
--- end NYT----

--- start FOX (w error) ----
Prominent Republicans are calling for Ariz. Gov. Jan Brewer to veto a controversial bill that would allow businesses to deny service over religious beliefs.
The Republican governor returned home Tuesday afternoon to a political climate that is much different from just a week ago when she left for Washington the last five days for a governor's conference.
The Arizona Legislature passed a bill last week allowing businesses whose owners cite sincerely held religious beliefs to deny service to gays.
It allows any business, church or person to cite the law as a defense in any action brought by the government or individual claiming discrimination.
The legislation has caused a national uproar.
The chorus of opposition has grown each day, with the business community, the state's Super Bowl Committee and both Republican U.S. senators calling for a veto.
Former GOP presidential nominee Mitt Romney was the latest prominent voice to weigh in and urge Brewer to veto the bill.
Brewer will likely spend the next day or more pondering Senate Bill 1062 before deciding whether to sign or veto the legislation.
There is widespread speculation that Brewer will veto the bill, but she has not said how she'll act, as is her longtime practice with pending legislation.
Political observers in Arizona cautioned that the governor is deliberate and not prone to act hastily, despite the growing calls from business, politicians of all stripes, and civil rights groups for a veto.
(TP) "She's no rookie to these high-profile deals — she gives both sides their due," said Doug Cole, a political consultant whose firm has run all of Brewer's campaigns for decades.
"She's going to get a very detailed briefing from her legal team, and give the proponents their best shot, and the opponents their best shot," he said.
"Everybody's going to get their say, and they've giving it."
Some Republican senators who pushed the bill through the Legislature are now calling for a veto as well, but they cite "inaccurate" information about the measure for igniting a firestorm.
They argue the bill is designed only to protect business owners with strong religious beliefs from discrimination lawsuits that have happened in other states.
Some blame the media for blowing the law out of proportion.
Democrats say that argument doesn't wash and call SB1062 "toxic" legislation that allows discrimination.
They said they warned Republicans who voted for the bill that it was destined for trouble.
"We brought this to their attention five weeks ago," said Sen. Steve Gallardo, D-Phoenix.
"We said this is exactly what is going to happen.
You have a bill here that's so toxic it's going to divide this Legislature.
It's going to be polarizing the entire state. And that's exactly what happened."
The bill was pushed by the Center for Arizona Policy, a social conservative group that opposes abortion and gay marriage.
The group says the proposal simply clarifies existing state law and is needed to protect against increasingly activist federal courts.
The center's president, Cathi Herrod, has been deriding what she called "fear-mongering" from the measure's opponents.
"What's happened is our opponents have employed a new political tactic, and it's working," she said.
"Throw out the threat of a boycott to attempt to defeat a bill, and you might just be able to be successful.
Herrod added she was surprised and disappointed that "in America today, false attacks and irresponsible characterizations about a piece of legislation can so intimidate and persuade people to change their opinion about religious liberty."
--- end FOX (w error) ----