--- start FOX----
The backlash to Indiana's new religious freedom law grew Monday, even as state lawmakers move to clarify the legislation, with Wash. Gov. Jay Inslee and Seattle Mayor Ed Murray banning government-funded travel to Indiana.
The statements are the latest boycott threats to emerge over claims that the law has the potential to discriminate against gays and others.
Murray, a Democrat who is openly gay, issued his ban via executive order over the weekend, and Inslee issued his Monday afternoon.
“I find Indiana’s new law disturbing, particularly at a time when more and more states and people in America are embracing civil rights for everyone," Inslee said in a statement.
"Washington will join other states and cities in opposing this law and I will impose an administration-wide ban on state-funded travel to Indiana."
Murray says the law doesn't reflect Seattle residents’ values.
He also has told all city departments to review their contracts to see whether Seattle is doing business with any company whose headquarters is in Indiana.
“Seattleites know that discrimination has no place in our city,” he said in a statement.
“That’s just equality 101.”
The primary concern is that the law might allow a business to discriminate against gay residents, such as a baker being allowed refuse an order from a gay couple for a wedding cake.
But state lawmakers and Republican Gov. Mike Pence have been defending and trying to explain the Religious Freedom Restoration Act ever since the governor signed it into law on Thursday.
They note that then-President Bill Clinton in 1993 signed similar federal legislation into law, and 19 other states also have similar policies.
However, the Indiana law differs in several ways, primarily in that it allows a business to assert a right to "the free exercise of religion."
On Monday, state Senate President Pro Tem David Long and House Speaker Brian Bosma, both Republicans, held a press conference to further explain the law.
They said they will swiftly try to "clarify" its language.
“The new law does not discriminate,” Long said.
“And it will not be allowed.
To the extent that we need to clarify through legislative action, we plan to do just that.”
Aside from Indiana, 15 other states have introduced legislation in 2015 to craft or alter their religious freedom laws.
Oklahoma, South Carolina and Texas have introduced legislation to amend their laws.
Arkansas, Colorado, Georgia, Hawaii, Michigan, Montana, Nevada, North Carolina, South Dakota, Utah, West Virginia and Wyoming are looking to put a similar law on their books.
Bosma acknowledged a major concern is whether businesses will now be legally permitted to deny services to some people, as a result of the law, and that even he is unclear.
“We don’t believe that will be the effect,” he said.
“We are looking at options to clarify that that's the case.”
Long and Bosma also conceded they called the press conference because Pence failed to clearly explain the law during an appearance Sunday on ABC’s “This Week.”
Pence said the legislation prohibits Indiana laws that "substantially burden" a person's ability to follow his or her religious beliefs, with the definition of "person" including religious institutions, businesses and associations.
However, he did not answer directly when asked six times whether, under the law, it would be legal for a merchant to refuse to serve gay customers.
Long on Monday also denied that a clarification of the law would be needed before this weekend’s men’s NCAA Final Four basketball championships, in Indianapolis.
A record-breaking 158,682 people attended the games last year in Texas.
And any boycott would have the potential to cut much anticipated revenue for Indianapolis-area hotels, restaurants and other businesses.
The NCAA, whose headquarters is in Indianapolis, also has expressed concern about the law, as figures in corporate America and Hollywood voice their opposition.
“We are especially concerned about how this legislation could affect our student-athletes and employees,” said NCAA President Mark Emmert.
“We intend to closely examine the implications of this bill and how it might affect future events as well as our workforce."
Angie’s List, the business-rating website, this weekend put on hold plans to expand its Indianapolis headquarters.
Actor George Takei is calling for a boycott.
And actor Ashton Kutcher recently tweeted: “Indiana are you also going to allow Christian establishments to ban Jews from coming in? Or Vice Versa? Religious freedom??? #OUTRAGE.”
--- end FOX----

--- start NYT----
Gov. Mike Pence of Indiana, moving to address a growing political firestorm over a religious freedom law enacted last week, said over the weekend that he would seek legislation to clarify the intent of the law, and rejected assertions that it sanctioned discrimination against gays and lesbians.
The governor, a Republican, told The Indianapolis Star on Saturday that he was taken aback by negative reactions to the state’s Religious Freedom Restoration Act, which he signed into law on Thursday.
He told the newspaper that he expected legislation clarifying the law to be introduced in the General Assembly this week, but offered no details.
The law aims to protect individuals or companies from being forced to take actions that impose a substantial burden on their religious beliefs.
Proponents say the law should allow Christian vendors to refuse service to same-sex couples without fear of legal reprisals.
“I support religious liberty, and I support this law,” the governor said.
“But we are in discussions with legislative leaders this weekend to see if there’s a way to clarify the intent of the law.”
Mr. Pence appeared on ABC’s “This Week” on Sunday, and the host, George Stephanopoulos, asked him whether signing the law was a mistake.
“Absolutely not,” Mr. Pence said, adding later: “I signed the bill.
We’re going to continue to explain it to people who don’t understand it, and if possible, we will find a way to amplify what this bill really is in the legislative process.”
But his answers to other questions were less clear.
Mr. Pence did not directly answer whether the law might protect, for example, a Christian florist who denied service to a gay couple.
Asserting that the legislation was not about discrimination, he said, “The issue here is, you know, is tolerance a two-way street or not?”
On Saturday, thousands of protesters gathered at the Statehouse as businesses and other governments announced a halt to business with the state and the capital, Indianapolis, over the law.
Marc Benioff, the chief executive officer of Salesforce.com, said on Thursday that his company would halt all corporate travel to Indiana.
On Saturday, Mayor Ed Murray of Seattle announced a ban on city employees traveling to Indiana for work using city funds.
The same day, Bill Oesterle, the chief executive officer of Angie’s List, said his company would abandon a deal with Indiana and Indianapolis to expand its headquarters.
His opposition was seen as an indication of dissatisfaction with the law beyond the liberal political left; he was the campaign director for Mitch Daniels’s successful Republican bid for governor in 2004.
The debate cast a shadow over preparations in Indianapolis for the N.C.A.A. men’s basketball tournament, which will take place in Indianapolis on Saturday and next Monday.
In a statement on Thursday, the N.C.A.A. president, Mark Emmert, said the organization was “deeply concerned” about the legislation.
“We intend to closely examine the implications of this bill and how it might affect future events as well as our work force,” he said.
The backlash has been an unexpected political headache for Mr. Pence, who is juggling whether to run for re-election or for president in 2016.
Defending the law in the interviews with The Star and Mr. Stephanopoulos, the governor pointed to its origins in federal legislation signed by President Bill Clinton and adopted by about 19 other states.
Indiana’s bill was drafted from a version that President Obama voted for when he was a state senator in Illinois, Mr. Pence said.
Critics, however, say the Indiana law includes different wording that could open the door to wider discrimination.
Critics also note that in many of the states with similar laws, including Illinois, sexual orientation is protected under civil rights law.
In Indiana, gays and lesbians are not a protected class.
When asked if he would seek those protections, the governor said that he would not.
“That’s not on my agenda,” he said on “This Week.”
--- end NYT----

--- start HPO (w error) ----
Washington Gov. Jay Inslee (D) announced Monday that he would ban state-funded travel to Indiana, where a controversial new law could allow businesses to deny service to gay and lesbian individuals for religious reasons.
“I find Indiana’s new law disturbing, particularly at a time when more and more states and people in America are embracing civil rights for everyone," Inslee said in a statement.
"Washington will join other states and cities in opposing this law and I will impose an administration-wide ban on state funded travel to Indiana."
In his statement, Inslee cited the case of a Washington-based florist who was recently ordered to pay a fine for discriminating against a gay couple who sought her services.
"We in Washington stand for equality," he said.
"I applaud those companies and organizations that have spoken out against the law and said they would not locate or expand operations in Indiana.
I want to invite all those organizations, and anyone interested in a state that promotes equality and opportunity, to come visit Washington.
We are open for business, and open to all people."
Earlier Monday, Connecticut Gov. Dan Malloy (D) took a similar stand against the Religious Freedom Restoration Act, signed into law by Indiana Gov. Mike Pence (R) at a private ceremony last week.
The measure has sparked national backlash, with critics warning that the law provides legal justification for discrimination against LGBT individuals.
In addition to Connecticut and Washington, San Francisco and Seattle have also imposed bans on city-funded travel to the state.
The mayors of Minnesota's Twin Cities, Minneapolis and St. Paul, have also condemned the measure.
The cities and states are joined by a number of business leaders speaking out against the law.
Apple chief Tim Cook called the law "dangerous" in a Washington Post op-ed, while Salesforce's Marc Benioff canceled the company's planned events in the state.
And on Monday, the executives of nine Indiana-based companies, including Angie's List and Anthem, sent a letter to Pence outlining their concerns.
"Regardless of the original intention of the Religious Freedom Restoration Act, we are deeply concerned about the impact it is having on our employees and on the reputation of our state," reads the letter.
Pence has defended his decision to sign the bill, claiming that the measure has been "grossly misconstrued as a 'license to discriminate.'"
"I abhor discrimination.
I believe in the Golden Rule that you should 'do unto others as you would have them do unto you,'" Pence wrote in a Wall Street Journal op-ed.
"If I saw a restaurant owner refuse to serve a gay couple, I wouldn’t eat there anymore.
As governor of Indiana, if I were presented a bill that legalized discrimination against any person or group, I would veto it.
Indiana’s new law contains no reference to sexual orientation.
It simply mirrors federal law that President Bill Clinton signed in 1993."
However, the governor and legislative leaders say they will seek to clarify that the law does not protect discrimination.
“It is not the intent of the law to discriminate against anyone, and it will not be allowed to discriminate against anyone,” state Senate President Pro Tem David Long (R) said.
(TN) “We hope to have a fix very soon."

--- end HPO (w error) ----