--- start HPO----
Susan Rice, President Barack Obama's national security adviser, said Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's planned speech in front of a joint session of Congress will be "destructive" to U.S.-Israel relations.
"What has happened over the last several weeks, by virtue of the invitation that was issued by the Speaker [John Boehner] and the acceptance of it by Prime Minister Netanyahu two weeks in advance of his election, is that on both sides, there has now been injected a degree of partisanship, which is not only unfortunate, I think it's destructive of the fabric of the relationship," Rice told PBS' Charlie Rose.
"It's always been bipartisan," Rice added.
"We need to keep it that way. We want it that way. I think Israel wants it that way. The American people want it that way.
When it becomes injected or infused with politics, that's a problem."
Obama has said he will not meet with Netanyahu ahead of his speech in March, saying it would be "inappropriate" to meet with the leader two weeks before the Israeli elections.
Netanyahu was invited to speak in front of a joint session of Congress by House Speaker John Boehner (R-Ohio), who did not seek approval from the White House before sending the invitation.
Several lawmakers have spoken out against the speech, saying it could cause additional strain on international talks over Iran's nuclear plans.
Sen. Patrick Leahy (D-Vt.) called Netanyahu's speech "a tawdry and high-handed stunt" in a statement earlier this month.
--- end HPO----

--- start NYT----
WASHINGTON — Susan E. Rice, President Obama’s national security adviser, sharply criticized Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel on Tuesday over his plans to address a joint meeting of Congress next week, saying his actions had hurt his nation’s relationship with the United States.
Mr. Netanyahu’s decision to travel to Washington to deliver the speech two weeks before the Israeli elections has “injected a degree of partisanship, which is not only unfortunate, I think it’s destructive of the fabric of the relationship,” Ms. Rice said in an interview on the PBS television program “Charlie Rose.”
Her comments marked the strongest public rebuke to date by the Obama administration since Mr. Netanyahu accepted an invitation from Speaker John A. Boehner to make his case to Congress against a nuclear deal with Iran, which is a priority of Mr. Obama’s.
It is also the frankest acknowledgment yet by a top American official of the degree to which the controversy has damaged United States-Israeli relations.
The speech, scheduled for March 3, was arranged by Mr. Boehner and the Israeli ambassador without consulting the White House — a move that Mr. Obama’s team has called a breach of protocol.
The president has said he will not meet with Mr. Netanyahu during his visit to avoid any appearance that he is trying to influence the Israeli elections that are scheduled for mid-March.
The episode is a low point in the tense relationship between Mr. Obama and Mr. Netanyahu and has touched off weeks of mostly anonymous sniping and finger-pointing.
Top administration officials have hinted more openly of their displeasure in recent days.
The White House on Wednesday said that Mr. Obama agreed with Ms. Rice’s assessment, saying he had raised the same concerns several times.
Her comments, said Josh Earnest, the White House press secretary, are “entirely consistent with what the president has already said.”
“Allowing this relationship to be subjected to party politics does weaken the relationship,” Mr. Earnest said.
Mr. Earnest said he did not know whether Mr. Obama and Ms. Rice had talked in advance of the interview about what she would say about Mr. Netanyahu’s visit.
Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., who as president of the Senate would be expected to attend, has said he will be traveling abroad.
Secretary of State John Kerry said Tuesday that he would be in Switzerland negotiating with the Iranians.
The White House has also not committed to sending a representative next week to the American Israel Public Affairs Committee’s conference, where Mr. Netanyahu is also scheduled to appear.
The Israeli prime minister himself has turned down a request by Democratic senators for a private meeting, Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, said Tuesday.
“We offered the prime minister an opportunity to balance the politically divisive invitation from Speaker Boehner with a private meeting with Democrats who are committed to keeping the bipartisan support of Israel strong,” Mr. Durbin said in a statement.
“His refusal to meet is disappointing to those of us who have stood by Israel for decades.”
In a letter released by Mr. Durbin’s office, Mr. Netanyahu said such a meeting “could compound the misperception of partisanship regarding my upcoming visit.”
Mr. Netanyahu said Tuesday that he was making the trip because it was his obligation to “do everything I can to prevent” a nuclear agreement with Iran.
“Therefore, I will go to Washington to address the American Congress, because the American Congress is likely to be the final brake before the agreement between the major powers and Iran,” he said as he toured a military base in southern Israel.
Ms. Rice demurred when asked whether she believed Mr. Netanyahu was making the speech to gain political favor.
“I’m not going to ascribe motives to the prime minister,” she told Mr. Rose.
“The point is, we want the relationship between the United States and Israel to be unquestionably strong, immutable, regardless of political seasons in either country, regardless of which party may be in charge in either country.
“We’ve worked very hard to have that,” she said, “and we will work very hard to maintain that.”
--- end NYT----

--- start FOX (w error) ----

(TN) National Security Adviser Susan Rice warned that Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s upcoming Capitol Hill address will be a “destructive” force in long-standing U.S.-Israel relations, adding more political acrimony to the already contentious visit.
Netanyahu was invited by House Speaker John Boehner, the leader of the Republican-controlled chamber, without him first conferring with the White House or State Department.
Such a move is generally considered a diplomatic no-no, but Boehner says he wanted to bring in Netanyahu to address the nuclear threat from Iran amid ongoing negotiations between Washington and Tehran.
The visit, though, has further challenged the strained relationship between President Obama and Netanyahu.
"It's destructive to the fabric of the relationship," Rice said Tuesday on PBS’s the “Charlie Rose” show.
“It’s always been bipartisan. We need to keep it that way."
Rice's statements were among the Obama administration's toughest on Netanyahu's speech, set for March 3.
To date, administration officials had maintained a more low-key stance, voicing concerns about the visit while saying Obama would not meet with his Israeli counterpart strictly out of a desire not to influence Israel's tight elections.
But tensions are rising on all sides.
Rice's comments came as Netanyahu turned down an invitation to meet privately with leading Senate Democrats during his trip to Washington, saying such a session could "compound the misperception of partisanship" surrounding his visit.
Netanyahu told Sens. Dick Durbin, of Illinois, and Dianne Feinstein, of California, that he regrets the invitation has been perceived by some to be political or partisan.
"I can assure you that my sole intention in accepting it was to voice Israel's grave concerns about a potential nuclear agreement with Iran that could threaten the survival of my country," he told the senators in a letter.
U.S. officials suggest Netanyahu’s trip is aimed primarily at derailing a nuclear deal with Iran, a signature Obama foreign policy objective.
While Netanyahu has long been skeptical of the negotiations, his opposition has increased over what he sees as Obama's willingness to make concessions that would leave Iran on the brink of being able to build a nuclear weapon.
U.S. and Iranian officials reported progress in negotiations this week on a deal that would clamp down on Tehran's nuclear activities for at least 10 years but then slowly ease restrictions.
Israeli officials warned this week that such a deal would allow Iran to become a nuclear threshold state.
Vice President Biden won't attend the Netanyahu speech.
And more than a half-dozen House and Senate Democrats also have said they will skip the event, calling it an affront to Obama and the administration as they negotiate with Iran over its nuclear program.
But Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., called Biden’s absence “appalling and unacceptable.”
"I don’t know where Joe Biden will be or what he will be doing, but I can’t believe it’s more important than being in the chamber and listening to our best ally in the region -- Israel -- about the biggest threat to mankind, a nuclear-armed Iran. ...
It shows complete disrespect, it shows they’re more worried about the politics in Israel than receiving information about a common threat," Graham, R-S.C., said Tuesday night on Fox News' "On the Record with Greta Van Susteren."
Durbin said he regretted that Netanyahu could not meet with the Democrats.
"We offered the prime minister an opportunity to balance the politically divisive invitation from Speaker Boehner." Durbin said.
"His refusal to meet is disappointing to those of us who have stood by Israel for decades."
--- end FOX (w error) ----