--- start FOX----
Massachusetts Gov. Deval Patrick on Wednesday picked a former chief of staff to fill Sen. John Kerry’s open seat until a special election in June.
The Democratic governor picked former Chief of Staff William "Mo" Cowan, who also served as Patrick’s chief legal counsel.
Kerry, also a Democrat and the state’s senior U.S. senator, was confirmed Tuesday as the new secretary of state, following his nomination by President Obama to replace the retiring Hillary Clinton.
Both political parties will hold special-election primaries in mid May.
But the winner of the Democratic primary will be a likely favorite to win the June 25 special general election, considering Massachusetts is among the most liberal states in the country.
Patrick also announced the general election date Wednesday.
Among the potential Democratic candidates are Reps. Stephen F. Lynch, Michael E. Capuano and Edward Markey.
The most high-profile potential Republican candidate is former Sen. Scott Brown, who pulled off a surprise 2010 victory in the race for the open seat of Sen. Ted Kennedy.
However, Brown lost his re-election bid in November to Democrat Elizabeth Warren.
Cowan joined the Patrick administration in 2009 and reportedly quit earlier this month to join private practice.
He previously practiced civil litigation at the Boston office of Mintz, Levin, Cohn, Ferris, Glovsky and Popeo PC, where he was a partner.
He also was a special assistant district attorney in the Office of the Middlesex County District Attorney.
Cowan is a graduate of Duke University and Northeastern University School of Law.
He and wife Stacy have two young sons.
“I am confident this is the right and best choice,” Patrick said at a late-morning press conference.
The appointment marks the first time in Senate history that two black senators have served at the same time.
“I’m not standing here because I’m a person of color, but because (the governor) believes I can do the job,” said Cowen, who joins South Carolina Republican Sen. Tim Scott as the chamber’s two black senators.
Cowmen also emphasized that his assignment is “temporary” and that he will work together with Kerry’s team.
Patrick gave little indication who he favored during his deliberations.
The only possible candidate he confirmed speaking with was former Democratic Rep. Barney Frank, and then only after Frank told reporters he'd spoken with Patrick.
Michael Dukakis, the former governor and 1988 Democratic presidential nominee, and Victoria Kennedy, Sen. Kennedy’s widow, had also been mentioned as possible candidates for the interim post.
--- end FOX----

--- start NYT----
Site Mobile Navigation
Governor Appoints Ex-Aide to Fill Kerry’s Seat
BOSTON — Gov. Deval Patrick on Wednesday appointed William Cowan, a Boston lawyer who is a longtime friend and former aide, to serve as an interim United States senator until voters chose a successor to John Kerry in a special election set for June 25.
Mr. Cowan, 43, who is known as Mo, is a former partner in the politically connected law firm of Mintz Levin and will become Massachusetts’ first black senator since Edward Brooke, a Republican, held the seat from 1966 to 1978.
His appointment makes Mr. Cowan the second black member to be seated in the current Senate, after Tim Scott of South Carolina was appointed by Gov. Nikki R. Haley.
Mr. Patrick had said he wanted to appoint someone who did not want to run for the seat later because that person would have to conduct a campaign while learning the ropes in the Senate, and would be unlikely to do either job well.
At a packed news conference at the State House, Mr. Cowan said he would not seek the permanent office or use the appointment as a springboard later.
“This is going to be a very short political career,” he vowed.
The clock is now ticking toward the special election.
It promises to be another bruising campaign, with two Democratic congressmen likely to face off in a primary in April.
The biggest question remaining in this drawn-out episode, which began last fall when Mr. Kerry’s name surfaced as a possible successor to Hillary Rodham Clinton as secretary of state, is whether former Senator Scott P. Brown, a Republican, will jump in.
Mr. Brown has remained mum on the subject, and his camp has sent few signals about his intentions, but he may find the opportunity hard to resist.
Polls show him beating Representative Edward J. Markey, the only Democrat who has officially declared his candidacy.
Mr. Brown has high name recognition and money left over from his unsuccessful race last year against Elizabeth Warren.
If he entered the race and won, Mr. Brown would be in the awkward position of becoming the junior senator to Ms. Warren, even though she has been in office only a few weeks.
The Senate historian said that those who return to the Senate after leaving — like Dan Coats of Indiana and Frank R. Lautenberg of New Jersey, for example — lose their seniority, although the distinction has little meaning beyond a way to refer to a state’s senators in the formal oratory of the Senate floor.
Still, it would be unusual for a state to have two senators who had run against each other, especially in a race that was particularly hard fought.
The June 25 special election would be Mr. Brown’s third statewide Senate race in three years, starting with his win in a special election in January 2010 to finish Senator Edward M. Kennedy’s term.
If he won, he would presumably run in 2014 for a full six-year term — or four statewide races in nearly five years.
So far, the only Democrat in the race is Mr. Markey, 66, a liberal and dean of the state’s Congressional delegation.
Several Democrats, including Mr. Kerry, have closed ranks behind him in the hopes of discouraging anyone else from getting in and avoiding a bruising primary.
But Representative Stephen F. Lynch, a conservative Democrat from South Boston, is expected to announce Thursday that he will challenge Mr. Markey.
The primary would be held on April 30.
The rough and tumble of the coming campaign seemed far away at Wednesday’s news conference, which was attended by Mr. Cowan’s wife, Stacey, and their two young sons.
“He’s cool,” Lt. Gov. Timothy Murray said of Mr. Cowan. “Tom Brady, George Clooney, James Bond and the president have nothing on Mo.”
Mr. Cowan, who usually wears a bow tie but opted not to for this occasion, is a former chief of staff and chief legal counsel to Mr. Patrick, the state’s first black governor.
From 1997 to 2009, he practiced civil litigation as an associate and later a partner in the Boston office of Mintz, Levin, Cohn, Ferris, Glovsky & Popeo.
He also served as a special assistant district attorney in Middlesex County.
He left the Patrick administration last year to return to the private sector, but said this brief detour to Washington was a sacrifice worth making because he wanted to give something back to the state that had given him so much.
Mr. Cowan said at the news conference that he was proud to take the post, noting that his mother, who was home in North Carolina recovering from knee surgery, was a child of the segregated South and had not attended college.
The death of Mr. Cowan’s father at a young age left her to raise her children alone.
Despite her hardships, he said, “My mother told me that days like this were possible.”
He seemed to be a quick study in the senatorial art of not answering questions definitively.
Asked, for example, if he would vote for military cuts if they cost jobs in Massachusetts, he called for “a balanced approach,” with some cuts and some revenue growth.
Mr. Patrick showed similar deftness, skirting a question about why he had not picked former Representative Barney Frank, who had asserted that he would have loved the interim appointment.
Mr. Cowan said that he would be relying on Mr. Kerry’s staff in Washington and in Massachusetts for guidance and that he intended to continue Mr. Kerry’s work.
“There won’t be any daylight there at all,” he said.
Mr. Patrick, who has served as a mentor to Mr. Cowan, was asked whether he saw some of himself in Mr. Cowan.
“I’m not that cool,” the governor replied.
--- end NYT----

--- start HPO (w error) ----
Mo Cowan Senate: Deval Patrick Names Former Chief Of Staff To Replace John Kerry
WASHINGTON -- Massachusetts Gov. Deval Patrick (D) on Wednesday appointed William "Mo" Cowan to the Senate seat vacated by newly confirmed Secretary of State John Kerry.
Cowan will hold the seat in an interim capacity until an election in June.
Patrick, Cowan and Lt. Governor Tim Murray were all smiles as they walked into a news conference to announce the appointment.
"He's cool," Murray said of Cowan.
"Tom Brady, George Clooney, James Bond, the president have nothing on Mo."
"It was a private fact, but now known publicly thanks to the lieutenant governor, that he also brought cool," Patrick said to laughs.
He and Cowan shook hands and hugged.
Cowan, 43, is a former chief of staff and former legal counsel to Patrick.
Like Patrick, who grew up on the South Side of Chicago before attending Milton Academy, Harvard and Harvard Law, Cowan came from a poor background to Boston for education and made a career there.
After growing up in poverty in rural North Carolina, Cowan went to Duke University and then Northeastern University School of Law.
He never left, and became a prominent Boston lawyer.
Cowan's appointment means that there will be two black senators serving together for the first time in American history.
Neither was elected -- Sen. Tim Scott (R-S.C.) was appointed in December after former Sen. Jim DeMint (R-S.C.) left the chamber in the middle of his term.
Cowan's selection is a step forward for a state that has a troubled history with race relations, exploding in the South Boston busing riots in the 1970s.
Patrick, the state's first African-American governor, said recently on local cable television that it was a priority for him to pick a woman or a person of color for the seat.
Cowan will become the second black senator from Massachusetts, after Edward Brooke, who served from 1967 to 1979.
(TN) Patrick on Wednesday was asked to reflect on the fact that eight years ago, the highest black official in the state was Suffolk County D.A. Ralph Martin.
Patrick said it was important to have black elected officials, adding, "the commonwealth and the country [are] changing."
Cowan said Patrick offered him the job on Tuesday, and he accepted.
He said there would be "no daylight" between him and Kerry on policy.
When asked about the looming sequester, he said the "best-case scenario" was a "balanced approach" of spending cuts and tax increases.
"I don't think anyone believes it's in the best interest to do straight across-the-board cuts," he said.
Patrick has consistently said that the pick to succeed Kerry should not run in the general election slated for June 25.
Cowan embraced the temporary appointment Wednesday, repeating over and over that his stint would be short.
Asked about his political future, he said, "I am not running for office; I am not a candidate in the future."
The late Sen. Ted Kennedy (D-Mass.) requested in a letter written before his death that the interim pick to replace him not run in the general election, a principle that Patrick honored after Kennedy died by picking Kennedy's longtime chief of staff, Paul Kirk.
Former Rep. Barney Frank (D-Mass.) was the only person to publicly campaign for the interim appointment, announcing his desire to fill the seat on MSNBC and doing subsequent interviews about it.
Frank promised that he would not run in the June election if appointed, and he endorsed Rep. Edward Markey (D-Mass.) for Senate, though the two fought over the redistricting process that Frank blamed for his exit from the House of Representatives.
Progressive groups lined up to rally support for Frank, but Patrick reportedly bristled at his public pursuit of the seat.
Frank praised Cowan in a brief statement Wednesday.
"I know Mr. Cowan is committed to working hard and in a socially fair and economically efficient manner toward solving pending budget issues," he said.
“I now look forward to working for the election of Ed Markey to continue this work, and to providing President Obama the support he deserves in carrying out the mandate he received in November."
A Frank representative did not respond to interview requests from The Huffington Post.
The only announced candidate for the general election is Markey, who has received a flood of endorsements from Democrats -- including Kerry -- and has a $3.1 million war chest.
Rep. Stephen Lynch (D-Mass.) is expected to announce his bid Thursday for the seat.
Lynch holds more conservative positions than Markey; he opposes abortion rights and voted against President Barack Obama's health care law.
Former Sen. Scott Brown (R-Mass.) has not said what he will do, but the Associated Press reported Tuesday that he was "leaning strongly" towards a run and would likely announce his candidacy early next week.
Brown has kept a low public profile since leaving the Senate in January, other than lashing out at his Twitter critics in a string of messages early Saturday morning.
--- end HPO (w error) ----