--- start HPO----
A day after telling reporters that he's "not going to talk about this anymore," Congressman Anthony Weiner (D-N.Y.) broke his silence Wednesday about the controversy surrounding a lewd photo sent from his Twitter account.
"This was a circumstance where someone committed a prank on the internet," he told MSNBC's Luke Russert.
"I didn't send [that] picture out" the congressman said, though he does not know who did.
Is the photo of him? I can't say with certitude" he told Russert.
"It was a prank," Weiner reiterated.
"This is not a national security matter.
We're not making a federal case out of this."
"I'm not sure it rises -- no pun intended -- to that level," he continued.
Weiner said he has hired a private security company to investigate how his account has been hacked.
Last weekend, a lewd photo of a man's bulging underpants was sent to a 21-year-old female college student in Seattle from Weiner's Twitter account.
It was quickly deleted, but a frenzy of coverage and comment ensued on blogs, cable news outlets and other media.
Weiner's spokesman said that the congressman's Twitter account had been hacked and dismissed the episode as a prank, but this week the congressman hired a lawyer, prompting additional rumors to swirl.
Earlier this week, the colorful and sometimes combative congressman who represents parts of Brooklyn and Queens was characteristically sharp tongued, refusing to answer reporters' questions about it, and even calling one a "jackass" for interrupting him.
He insisted that he wanted to move on from the incident, which was distracting from his work on Capitol Hill.
But there was no sign the story, or the speculation about who may have been responsible for tweeting the photo, was fading.
Weiner failed in a 2005 bid for the Democratic nomination for mayor of New York City, but he is still is widely considered a future contender for the office.
"I'm not going to talk about this anymore," Weiner told reporters on Capitol Hill.
"I think that if I was giving a speech to 45,000 people and someone stood up and heckled in the back, I wouldn't spend three days talking to him.
I'm going to get back to the conversation I care about."
Weiner declined to answer reporters' questions about the photo or why he was hiring a lawyer for the case instead of having law enforcement officials pursue the matter.
Weiner was a Twitter follower of the female college student who received the photo.
The tweet of the lewd photo first was reported Saturday by BigGovernment.com, a website run by conservative commentator Andrew Breitbart.
The site said the photo was tweeted to a female college student in Seattle.
The woman told the New York Daily News that she had never met Weiner, and that there had "never been any inappropriate exchanges" between her and the congressman.
Weiner, 46, is married to Huma Abedin, an aide to Secretary of State Hillary Clinton.
The congressman over the weekend joked about the incident on Twitter, asking whether his kitchen blender would be next to "attack" him.
On Tuesday as the House was preparing to vote on the nation's debt limit, Weiner was back tweeting about the vote with his usual partisan edge.
--- end HPO----

--- start NYT----
WASHINGTON — Representative Anthony D. Weiner, trying to put to rest a bizarre episode that is overshadowing his role as liberal pugilist and threatening his dream of becoming New York’s mayor, emphatically denied on Wednesday that he had sent a suggestive photograph to a woman in Washington State but said he could not be sure that he is not the person in the image.
“This was essentially a hacked account that had a gag photo sent out on it,” Mr. Weiner, a Democrat, said during an interview in his office here.
“I can’t say with certainty very much about where the photograph came from.”
On Tuesday, Mr. Weiner presided over two testy news briefings at which he had dodged a variety of questions.
On Wednesday, he adopted a strikingly different approach, sitting patiently for a series of interviews at which he insisted he had done nothing wrong and marveled at what he said on MSNBC was the “Alice in Wonderland world” in which a wayward Twitter message had become the talk of the town.
Mr. Weiner, one of Congress’s most enthusiastic users of social media to engage with constituents and supporters, said he believed his Twitter account, or a related photo-sharing site, had been infiltrated by a hacker or a prankster, who had then sent the offending photo out late Friday.
He said that he had hired an Internet security company and a lawyer to look into the matter, but that he did not believe the episode merited investigation by federal law enforcement.
He did not rule out the possibility that the photo was of him, but said he did not know who could have sent it.
He said he did not know the woman who received the photo, Gennette Cordova, a student at Whatcom Community College in Bellingham, Wash.; she followed him on Twitter.
He said he regretted that Ms. Cordova was caught in the middle of the controversy.
She issued a statement over the weekend saying she had never met him, and she has not spoken out since.
“I just feel terrible for her,” Mr. Weiner said, adding that he had never corresponded with her.
“She has committed no crime except to follow me on Twitter.”
The congressman also expressed concern about the toll the episode was taking on his wife, Huma Abedin, a longtime aide to Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton.
“I’m protecting my wife, who every day is waking up to these insane stories that are getting so far from reality,” he told CNN.
“You know, we’ve been married less than a year.”
Asked on CNN whether he still wished to be mayor, he said, “Put it this way: It’s the only better job than the one I have.”
Jack Levin, the chief executive of yFrog, the Twitter-affiliated image and video service that was used to upload the photo, said in an interview on Wednesday that his company did not have reason to believe that its user passwords were exposed or stolen.
He said it was possible that the photo could have been sent from Mr. Weiner’s yFrog account through his Twitter password or through a yFrog password.
Mr. Levin said neither Mr. Weiner’s office nor any law enforcement authorities had contacted him or his company to inquire about the photo.
Twitter, which does not comment on individual user accounts for privacy reasons, has declined to say whether Mr. Weiner’s account was hacked.
Despite the swirl of events that has buffeted him for several days, Mr. Weiner has not abandoned his sharp humor.
Suggesting that the photo might have been altered, he alluded to a “Daily Show” sketch on Tuesday in which the comedian Jon Stewart, a longtime friend, had joked that the photo could not have been of the congressman.
“I don’t have memory of this photograph,” Mr. Weiner said in the interview in his office.
“But I also ... you know, Jon Stewart might have had it right last night: that there were elements of this photograph that might have been doctored.”
He paused, then added: “But I don’t know that.
And I don’t want that to be the headline.”
--- end NYT----

--- start FOX (w error) ----
Rep. Anthony Weiner, in an interview with Fox News, said Wednesday he's certain he did not send a lewd photo of somebody's bulging underwear to a college student via Twitter.
But the congressman repeatedly declined to say whether the picture was an image of him.
The congressman, who described the incident as "mischief," continued to allege that he was the victim of a computer hacker.
He said he's asked an Internet security firm and a law firm to take a "hard look" at the incident and find out what happened, though he suggested he doesn't want to make a federal case out of it.
He said somebody is just trying to distract him.
"I know for a fact that my account was hacked," Weiner told Fox News.
"I can definitively say that I did not send this."
He also said he "certainly" does not know the college student the image was sent to -- though, when asked repeatedly, Weiner declined to say whether he was shown in the image.
The New York Democrat, who is known for his combative style in interviews and on the House floor, granted a series of TV interviews after getting testy with reporters late Tuesday.
At the time, he repeatedly said he would not allow the incident to distract him from his job, as he likened what he described as a "prank" to somebody shouting out an insult or throwing a pie during a speech.
Asked point-blank, "Is that picture you?" Weiner replied, "You know I'm not going to talk about this anymore."
"This is the tactic.
The guy in the back of the room who's throwing the pie or yelling out the insult wants that to be the conversation," Weiner told reporters.
"But I am not going to allow this thing to dominate what I talk about."
As reporters continued to ask him for several minutes whether he sent the image, the exchange became heated.
(FP) At one point, Weiner referred to a reporter in the scrum as a "jackass."
Weiner referred to prior statements his office had put out, indicating he was through talking about the matter.
Though Weiner's office had earlier responded to media inquiries, a few details appear to be keeping the story alive.
Weiner's office initially said the congressman's account was "obviously hacked," but the representative has since taken to calling the incident a "prank" -- he used both terms Wednesday.
The U.S. Capitol Police so far have not opened an investigation into the matter.
A former Justice Department computer crimes prosecutor said it would not cost much to request an investigation from the FBI.
The former official said if Weiner had called the FBI when the story broke, the public would already know where the Tweet originated.
Though Weiner said the incident did not constitute a federal crime, the former official said multiple federal crimes would have been committed if somebody did hack into his account -- and it could lead to years behind bars.
Amid the controversy, a Twitter official emailed security tips to members of Congress regarding their accounts.
"While we won't comment on individual accounts, news reports of the past few days are a good reminder of the importance of actively protecting your account credentials," Twitter's Adam Sharp wrote.
He urged offices to use a "strong password" of at least 10 characters including numbers and symbols, be on the lookout for "suspicious links," and refrain from giving out passwords to "untrusted third-parties."
The photo in question showed a close-up shot of a man's bulging underwear.
It was deleted within minutes of being sent.
Breitbart's BigGovernment.com first reported that it was tweeted to a Seattle woman, later identified as Gennette Cordova.
Cordova is just one of 198 people that Weiner follows on Twitter, though he has nearly 50,000 followers.
Porn star Ginger Lee tweeted last month that she received a direct message from Weiner, and several other attractive women say they've been surprised to get a "follow" or a message from the prominent Democrat.
Those claims are all circumstantial, but it doesn't help his case should there ever actually be one.
Weiner, 46, is married to Huma Abedin, an aide to Secretary of State Hillary Clinton.
--- end FOX (w error) ----