--- start FOX----
'Jail!' Trump slams 'crooked' Hillary aide Huma, calls on 'Deep State' DOJ to act
President Trump went after "Crooked" Hillary Clinton aide Huma Abedin on Tuesday, appearing to call on the “Deep State” Justice Department to look at potential security issues in her handling of classified material after a recent email dump.
“Crooked Hillary Clinton’s top aide, Huma Abedin, has been accused of disregarding basic security protocols.
She put Classified Passwords into the hands of foreign agents.
Remember sailors pictures on the submarine?
Jail!” Trump tweeted early Tuesday.
“Deep State Justice Dept must finally act?
Also on Comey & others.”
Trump was referring to U.S. Navy Sailor Kristian Saucier, who was put in prison for taking unauthorized photos inside a nuclear submarine.
He seemed to suggest a double standard is at play, compared with the lack of punishment for Clinton and her aides.
The president’s tweet comes after the State Department, in a Friday news dump, released a batch of emails from Abedin’s account that were discovered by the FBI on a laptop belonging to her estranged husband, Anthony Weiner.
At least four of the documents were marked “classified.”
Abedin also forwarded sensitive State Department emails to her personal Yahoo email account before every Yahoo account was hacked, first reported by the Daily Caller.
Abedin also sent passwords for her government laptop to her Yahoo account on Aug. 24, 2009.
In 2013, Yahoo was hacked, and the company said in a statement that “all Yahoo user accounts were affected” by the theft.
Former FBI Director James Comey, who led the Clinton email investigation, said during a congressional hearing last year that he believed Abedin forwarded emails to Weiner for him to print out so that she could give them to Clinton.
Abedin’s emails shook the 2016 presidential race, as Comey told Congress on Oct. 28, 2016, just days before the election, that the FBI had found more of Clinton’s messages on Weiner’s laptop as they investigated a sexting case against him.
The discovery of those records reopened the case against Clinton, several months after Comey said he wasn’t recommending any charges be filed in the case.
Comey at the time said Clinton was “extremely careless” in her handling of classified emails on her private server.
--- end FOX----

--- start NYT----
Trump Accuses Former Clinton Aide of Failing to Follow Security Protocols
WASHINGTON — President Trump made his first “Crooked Hillary” Twitter post less than 48 hours into the new year on Tuesday, accusing a former Clinton aide of “disregarding basic security protocols,” and calling his own Justice Department a “deep state.”
Attacking Hillary Clinton, his former Democratic opponent from the 2016 presidential election, and taking aim at his own Justice Department struck familiar tones for the new year.
Almost 14 months after the election, Mr. Trump has kept up a regular drumbeat of attacks on Mrs. Clinton.
Last year, Mr. Trump also criticized the Justice Department and Attorney General Jeff Sessions for not pursuing investigations of his political opponents.
The Twitter post on Tuesday morning followed an article in The Daily Caller, a conservative publication that Mr. Trump closely monitors.
The article said the aide, Huma Abedin, forwarded some government passwords to her private Yahoo email account in 2009, when Mrs. Clinton was secretary of state.
Yahoo was hacked in 2013, which affected all three billion of its accounts.
After the breach, the data was offered for sale by a hacking collective based in Eastern Europe.
Mr. Trump also implored his administration to investigate Ms. Abedin.
The term “deep state” typically refers to a shadow government of agency officials who secretly plot to influence policy; they are usually associated with countries that have authoritarian elements that undercut democratically elected leaders.
On Friday, the State Department released about 3,000 of Ms. Abedin’s work-related emails.
The emails were found on the laptop of Ms. Abedin’s now estranged husband, Anthony D. Weiner, and were released as part of a public records request.
The emails found on Mr. Weiner’s computer are a sore spot for Mrs. Clinton.
James B. Comey, the former F.B.I. director, had notified Congress shortly before the 2016 election about the existence of newly discovered emails that could be relevant to the closed investigation into Mrs. Clinton’s use of a private email server while secretary of state.
Mrs. Clinton, in a book released last year, said Mr. Comey’s disclosure hurt her campaign’s momentum and helped Mr. Trump win the election.
In his Twitter post, Mr. Trump also referred to the case of a Navy sailor who was jailed for taking pictures inside a military submarine.
According to a report in Fox News, the sailor had hoped to receive a pardon from the president, but has not.
--- end NYT----

--- start HPO (w error) ----
Trump Attacks Justice Department As 'Deep State,' Calls For Jailing Top Clinton Aide
WASHINGTON ― President Donald Trump on Tuesday renewed his attack on his “deep state” Justice Department, and said a top aide to 2016 election rival Hillary Clinton should be jailed.
Trump, returning to Washington after spending the holidays at his Florida resort, posted an early-morning tweet lashing out at former Clinton aide Huma Abedin, apparently in response to Abedin emails released by the State Department on Friday.
The emails, disclosed in response to a Freedom of Information Act lawsuit filed by the conservative group Judicial Watch, were uncovered during the 2016 presidential campaign, according to Politico, part of the FBI’s probe into Clinton’s use of a private email server during her time as secretary of state.
Abedin reportedly forwarded State Department emails, including some that contained passwords, to a personal account.
Trump and his right-wing allies continue to raise the issue.
(TN) Trump also said in his tweet that the Justice Department must act on “Comey and others,” a reference to former FBI Director James Comey, who was leading the investigation into whether Trump’s campaign colluded with Russia to influence the election until Trump fired him in May.
Trump, in tweets and interviews, has repeatedly sought to undermine his Justice Department and FBI as the Russia probe has intensified.
He has criticized Attorney General Jeff Sessions numerous times for recusing himself from supervising the Russia investigation, and claims to have the right to direct government investigations himself.
Last week, Trump asserted in a New York Times interview that he had the “absolute right to do what I want to do with the Justice Department.”
--- end HPO (w error) ----