--- start FOX----
Federal prosecutors have subpoenaed New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie's campaign and a state Republican Party committee, escalating their probe into allegations that his aides created traffic jams as political payback.
Mark Sheridan, the attorney representing Christie's campaign, confirmed to Fox News that the campaign and the Republican State Committee received subpoenas relating to the closure of traffic lanes near the George Washington Bridge last year.
"We can confirm that the Christie for Governor re-election campaign and the New Jersey Republican State Committee received subpoenas for documents from the U.S. Attorney's office, in addition to the subpoena the campaign previously received from the state legislative committee," he said.
"All three subpoenas focus on the closure of lanes on the George Washington Bridge.
The campaign and the state party intend to cooperate with the U.S. Attorney's office and the state legislative committee and will respond to the subpoenas accordingly."
The subpoenas were disclosed Thursday, the same day the Republican governor's campaign announced it had hired the Washington, D.C., law firm Patton Boggs in the case.
Sheridan works for the firm and is general counsel for the state Republican committee.
A state legislative committee investigating the traffic jams has also issued subpoenas to the two organizations.
The federal subpoenas are due Feb. 5.
The state committee subpoenas must be returned Feb. 3.
Earlier this month, U.S. Attorney Paul Fishman said only that his office was reviewing the matter "to determine whether a federal law was implicated."
The traffic lanes were closed for four days in September, creating traffic gridlock in Fort Lee, the town at the base of the bridge on the New Jersey side.
Emails and text messages turned over to legislators suggest it may have been a message to the town's Democratic mayor for not endorsing Christie.
--- end FOX----

--- start HPO----
WASHINGTON -- The U.S. Attorney’s office in New Jersey has subpoenaed documents from the reelection campaign of New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie (R) and the New Jersey Republican State Committee, as part of its investigation into the "Bridgegate" scandal.
In a statement issued Thursday, Mark Sheridan, a partner with Patton Boggs, said his law firm had been retained to represent both the campaign and the committee in connection with the investigation.
"We can confirm that the Christie for Governor re-election campaign and the New Jersey Republican State Committee received subpoenas for documents from the U.S. Attorney's office, in addition to the subpoena the campaign previously received from the state legislative committee," said Sheridan.
"All three subpoenas focus on the closure of lanes on the George Washington Bridge.
The campaign and the state party intend to cooperate with the U.S. Attorney's office and the state legislative committee and will respond to the subpoenas accordingly."
The Christie administration closed down two of the three George Washington Bridge access lanes in Fort Lee, N.J., in September, in what appeared to be a political retribution scheme aimed at the borough's Democratic mayor.
The closures, which lasted for four days, caused massive traffic jams.
They were orchestrated by a Christie ally at the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, David Wildstein, along with one of Christie's deputy chiefs of staff, Bridget Kelly, and his then-campaign manager and top political adviser, Bill Stepien.
Christie has maintained that he had no involvement in, or knowledge of, the plan.
The New Jersey state legislature is also investigating the lane closures.
The FBI and the Department of Housing and Urban Development, meanwhile, are looking into separate controversies over whether the Christie administration misused Hurricane Sandy relief dollars.
--- end HPO----

--- start NYT (w error) ----
Federal prosecutors in New Jersey have issued grand jury subpoenas to Gov. Chris Christie’s re-election campaign and to the state Republican Party as part of a preliminary inquiry into accusations that aides to Mr. Christie shut down access lanes to the George Washington Bridge as political retribution, the lawyer for the campaign and the party said Thursday.
A person briefed on the matter said the prosecutors had also issued subpoenas to some of the 20 people and entities — including potential witnesses and people who have come under scrutiny in the inquiry — that received subpoenas last week from a New Jersey legislative committee whose investigation largely parallels the federal one.
“We can confirm that the Christie for Governor re-election campaign and the New Jersey Republican State Committee received subpoenas for documents from the U.S. attorney’s office, in addition to the subpoena the campaign previously received from the state legislative committee,” the lawyer, Mark D. Sheridan, said in an email.
Mr. Sheridan is representing the campaign along with Robert D. Luskin; both men are partners at Patton Boggs.
“The campaign and the state party intend to cooperate with the U.S. attorney’s office and the state legislative committee and will respond to the subpoenas accordingly,” Mr. Sheridan said.
According to the person briefed on the matter, the subpoenas, issued by prosecutors in the office of the United States attorney for New Jersey, Paul J. Fishman, seek a broad range of records relating to the lane closings: emails, text messages, other correspondence and memorandums, calendar entries, spreadsheets, voice mail messages.
They also specifically seek records relating to three close aides to Mr. Christie who resigned or were fired when their roles in the lane closings were revealed.
They were the governor’s deputy chief of staff, Bridget Anne Kelly, and Bill Baroni and David Wildstein, two senior officials and allies of Mr. Christie at the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which operates the bridge.
Federal Bureau of Investigation agents and prosecutors from Mr. Fishman’s office have also undertaken what appears to be an unrelated inquiry.
On Saturday, the mayor of Hoboken, Dawn Zimmer, said Mr. Christie’s lieutenant governor and another senior administration official had threatened in May to withhold federal recovery aid for Hurricane Sandy unless she supported a development favored by the Christie administration.
On Sunday, Ms. Zimmer issued a statement saying prosecutors in Mr. Fishman’s office had interviewed her about her accusation.
The lieutenant governor, Kim Guadagno, emphatically denied the allegations on Monday.
Ms. Zimmer’s account, however, was supported in some measure by two of the mayor’s aides, who were interviewed by F.B.I. agents and told them that Ms. Zimmer had recounted the threat to them around the time she said it occurred, two people briefed on the matter have said.
A Hoboken city councilman, David Mello, also said that Ms. Zimmer told him several months later about the encounter with Ms. Guadagno.
The bridge inquiry being conducted by Mr. Fishman’s office was confirmed this month.
The office said at the time that it would seek to determine whether any federal laws had been broken.
The subpoenas issued this week show that prosecutors have begun taking the necessary steps to answer that question.
A spokeswoman for Mr. Fishman’s office, Rebekah Carmichael, said Thursday afternoon that she could neither confirm nor deny whether any specific investigative steps had been taken.
She has declined to comment on Ms. Zimmer’s allegation.
(TN) Despite the inquiries, Mr. Christie seemed to be trying to conduct business as usual.
The Republican Governors Association announced on Thursday that he would make fund-raising trips to Illinois, Texas, Massachusetts, Georgia, Connecticut and Utah in the coming months.
--- end NYT (w error) ----