--- start FOX----
One of the highest-profile Republicans in the House of Representatives – where national immigration reform will live or die this year – said he agrees with giving undocumented immigrants a chance to legalize their status.
Majority Whip Kevin McCarthy, who is the third-ranking Republican in the House, made his comments in an interview with KBFX-TV in Bakersfield, Calif. just as his fellow GOP lawmakers are expected to unveil any day a set of “immigration principles” that reportedly call for a path to legal status for undocumented immigrants.
“The principles aren’t written yet, but in my personal belief, I think it’ll go with legal status that will allow you to work and pay taxes,” he said.
“But if you want to become a citizen, you’ll have to go through the path.
There won’t be amnesty inside it.”
McCarthy’s district is roughly 35 percent Latino.
The House Republican immigration principles reportedly will cover how the U.S. border should be protected, how immigration laws should be enforced inside the United States, and how many of the country’s estimated 11 million undocumented immigrants can embark on a path to legalize their status, according to various media stories.
The path to legalization’s inclusion in the plan – which House Republican leaders discussed as recently as Wednesday -- is particularly significant given that it is one of the pivotal reasons that plans last year to pass a comprehensive immigration reform law broke down in the House of Representatives after it passed in the Senate in June.
Conservative members of the Republicans in the House, where they hold a majority, had been adamant about not signing off on any measure that called for granting a pathway to legalization for people who are living in the country illegally.
They maintain that that giving those immigrants any kind of break would amount to amnesty, or rewarding law-breakers.
That created a fight among Republicans in Congress, with some – including conservatives such as Sen. Marco Rubio, a Tea Party lawmaker from Florida – arguing that deporting all 11 million undocumented immigrants was not a realistic option, and that not doing anything to bring them onto the radar amounted to an amnesty.
Proponents of a pathway to legal status argued that the opportunity would be given only to those undocumented immigrants who earned it by meeting a strict set of criteria including paying fines, learning English, having a clean police record and paying taxes.
Politico, a news site that covers politics, reported that House Speaker John Boehner, who is from Ohio, wants the plan, also referred to as “principles,” completed and made public before President Barack Obama delivers his State of the Union address on Jan. 28.
The plan commits itself to the idea – which is heavily favored by many Republicans – that immigration reform will be handled in a piecemeal fashion, instead of comprehensively, as the Senate did.
Obama told Senate Democrats this week that he believes that Boehner will make sure immigration reform is passed this year, according to The Hill, a a political publication in Washington, D.C.
The president reportedly told the Democrats in a meeting that Republicans need to take action on immigration in order to keep the volatile issue from hurting their chances with Latino voters, as it appears to have done in 2012, when GOP presidential candidate Mitt Romney did extremely poorly with the increasingly important voting bloc.
Obama obtained three quarters of Latino votes cast in 2012, while Romney racked up 27 percent.
Sen. Charles Schumer, a New York Democrat, was quoted in The Hill as saying: “I think our Republican colleagues realize that to be blocking immigration reform is not good for them.”
--- end FOX----

--- start HPO----
House Majority Whip Kevin McCarthy (R-Calif.), a longtime target of immigration activists, said Tuesday that he would support allowing undocumented immigrants to stay in the U.S., but stopped short of calling for a path to citizenship.
Advocates are hoping for a plan that would give undocumented immigrants a chance to both remain in the country and eventually become citizens, but House Republicans have indicated that the latter is something most cannot support.
Although he's expressed openness to legal status previously, his comments could be a hint at what's to come in the House GOP's plan to soon release its own principles for immigration reform.
"The principles aren't combined, written out yet, but in my personal belief I think it'll go with legal status that will allow you to work and pay your taxes," McCarthy told KBFX Eyewitnesses News.
"But if you want to become a citizen, you'll have to go through the path.
There won't be amnesty inside it."
He added later, "That's a decision that every Republican will have to make in laying out the principles, but that's my personal position."
McCarthy has previously been more open to immigration reform than many of his House Republican colleagues, and, as TPM notes, his district is 35 percent Latino.
Immigration activists have targeted McCarthy specifically due to his high rank in the House GOP.
--- end HPO----

--- start NYT (w error) ----
WASHINGTON — House Republicans are preparing to unveil their own broad template for overhauling the nation’s immigration system this week, potentially offering a small opening for President Obama and congressional Democrats to pass bipartisan legislation before the end of the year.
Speaker John A. Boehner of Ohio and other Republican leaders are expected to release a one-page statement of immigration principles this week at their annual retreat in Cambridge, Md., according to aides with knowledge of the plan.
The document is expected to call for border security and enforcement measures, as well as providing a path to legal status — but not citizenship — for many of the 11 million undocumented immigrants in the country, the aides said.
The Republican effort comes as Mr. Obama is expected to push once again for an overhaul of the immigration system in his State of the Union address Tuesday, and as lawmakers from both parties describe immigration as one of the few potential areas for bipartisan compromise before the end of the current Congress.
“The principles they lay out I’m sure won’t satisfy everybody,” Michael R. Bloomberg, former mayor of New York City, said at an immigration forum on Friday.
But, he added, “if we can make some compromises here for the good of the country, I think we have a very good chance for the first time in a long time of changing something that is really damaging all of us.”
The Senate, led by Democrats, passed a broad bipartisan measure in June to overhaul immigration that included a 13-year path to citizenship.
But the legislation stalled in the Republican-controlled House, where some of the party’s more conservative members oppose any form of legal status as “amnesty.”
But heading into the three-day Republican retreat, even some of the most ardent conservatives say consensus is forming around an immigration package that would include several separate bills on border security; a clampdown against the hiring of undocumented workers; expanded guest-worker programs; a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants brought to the country as children; and a path to legal status for undocumented workers with family ties to citizens or employer sponsors.
The White House has said it wants a path to citizenship for both children and adults in any new immigration legislation.
“The president’s pathway to citizenship is a stumbling block,” said Representative Andy Harris, a conservative Republican who represents the Maryland district that will host the retreat.
“But legalization with no path to citizenship can gain some votes.”
Representative Peter T. King, a Republican of New York and a longtime critic of proposals to change the immigration system, said it was significant that both the third-ranking Republican in the House, Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, and the Judiciary Committee chairman, Representative Robert W. Goodlatte of Virginia, had voiced support in recent days for legal status for some immigrants living in the country illegally — and have taken very little heat for their remarks on either side of the aisle.
But the divisions that have slowed progress in the House have not been entirely mended.
Representative Raúl R. Labrador, a Republican of Idaho and once a leading immigration negotiator in the House, said it would be a mistake to push forward.
“The president has shown he’s not willing to work with us on immigration,” Mr. Labrador said.
“It’s not worth having a party divided when we have so many issues we can come together on.”
On Thursday, aides to House conservatives who oppose the leadership’s plan gathered in the office of Senator Jeff Sessions, Republican of Alabama and a fierce opponent of the immigration push, to plot a strategy to torpedo it.
(TN) Critics worry that House Republican leaders and Senate Democrats are essentially negotiating a final deal, bypassing formal House-Senate negotiations, where conservatives had hoped to derail the process.
Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York, one of the Democratic architects of the Senate bill, said: “One thing is certain, just as with the budget, at some point both the House and the Senate will have to sit down and resolve all the contentious issues.”
--- end NYT (w error) ----