--- start FOX----
Democrats urge Trump to cancel Putin summit, after indictment of Russian intel officers
Top Democrats on Friday swiftly pressured President Trump to consider cancelling his upcoming summit with Vladimir Putin, after a dozen Russian intelligence officers were indicted for allegedly hacking party emails in 2016.
Sen. Mark Warner, top Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee, offered Trump an ultimatum for the highly anticipated summit: make Russian interference a priority, or cancel the meeting.
Other Democrats said Trump should nix the summit regardless -- though they were raising concerns about the meeting even before the indictment.
Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein announced the charges during a Friday press conference.
According to the DOJ document, 12 Russian intelligence officers are accused of hacking emails from the Hillary Clinton campaign and Democratic Party during the 2016 election.
“I want to make sure that other Americans hear ... the president make this issue of Russian interference a priority in the meeting,” Warner, D-Va., told reporters on Capitol Hill Friday.
“If they don’t make the indictments a priority in the meeting in Helsinki, then the summit should be canceled.”
Warner, whose committee has been investigating Russian meddling and potential collusion with Trump campaign associates in the 2016 election for more than a year, also stressed that there “needs to be other Americans in the room” in Helsinki, Finland Monday to ensure that Trump makes the issue of interference in the 2016 election a “priority.”
“There should be no one-on-one meeting between this president and Putin,” Warner said.
“There needs to be other Americans in the room, or the summit should be canceled.”
He warned, “I’m afraid the president could be taken advantage of.”
But as Trump continues to describe the Russia probe as a "witch hunt," the White House downplayed the latest allegations.
“Today’s charges include no allegations of knowing involvement by anyone on the campaign and no allegations that the alleged hacking affected the election result,” said Lindsay Walters, the deputy White House press secretary.
“This is consistent with what we have been saying all along.”
Within minutes of the indictment, Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., urged Trump to call off the Putin meeting.
“Cancel the Putin meeting. Now,” Schumer tweeted Friday.
Sen. Ron Wyden, D-Ore., said a handshake with Putin would be "a moment of historic cowardice."
"In light of what's been revealed about Russia’s attack on our democracy, the president shaking Putin's hand would be a moment of historic cowardice.
Call off this summit, @realDonaldTrump," Wyden tweeted.
Sen. Jack Reed, D-R.I., said Trump should “immediately cancel his meeting.”
House Democratic Leader Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., said “the stakes” for the summit “could not be higher.”
“President Trump must demand and secure a real, concrete and comprehensive agreement that the Russians will cease their ongoing attacks on our democracy,” Pelosi said in a statement Friday.
“Failure to stand up to Putin would constitute a profound betrayal of the Constitution and our democracy.”
Presuming the meeting takes place as scheduled, Helsinki will be the final stop on Trump’s four-nation European tour.
Trump spent the past week meeting with NATO allies in Brussels; meeting with British Prime Minister Theresa May and Queen Elizabeth II in England; and visiting Scotland.
--- end FOX----

--- start HPO----
Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.), Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) and 18 members of the House Foreign Affairs Committee called on President Donald Trump to cancel his meeting with Russian President Vladimir Putin after indictments were announced Friday accusing a dozen Kremlin intelligence officers of hacking Democratic Party emails during the 2016 presidential campaign.
But a senior administration source told NBC on Friday that there was “zero” chance the controversial private meeting between the two men would be canceled.
McCain tweeted that if Trump “is not prepared to hold Putin accountable,” the talks in Helsinki on Monday “should not move forward.”
He said the indictments are evidence of an “extensive plot” by Putin’s government to “attack the 2016 election, sow chaos and dissension among the American electorate, and undermine faith in our democracy.”
Schumer said in a statement that “glad-handing with Vladimir Putin on the heels of these indictments would be an insult to our democracy.”
He said the one-on-one meeting should not take place until “Russia takes demonstrable and transparent steps to prove that they won’t interfere in future elections.”
Sen. Elizabeth Warren (D-Mass.) tweeted tersely to Trump to “cancel your ridiculous Putin summit and get your butt on a plane back to the United States.”
Sen. Mark Warner, the top Democrat on the Senate Intelligence Committee, also said he is concerned that Putin will take “full advantage of an ill-prepared” Trump.
The president has said he plans to meet with the Russian leader alone.
“There should be no one-on-one meeting between President Trump and Vladimir Putin,” Warner told reporters Friday.
Rep. Ted Lieu (D-Calif.) also called for the cancellation of the meeting, saying that Trump “cannot claim to love the U.S. while meeting with ... a man who is overseeing an all-out attack on America’s democracy.”
He was one of several members of the House Foreign Affairs Committee who signed a letter calling on Trump to cancel.
Rep. David Cicilline (D-R.I.) tweeted to Trump: “Don’t hand another dictator a propaganda victory.”
Most Republicans were keeping mum.
A terse response from the GOP only said: “No collusion.”
But the investigation is ongoing, and there hasn’t yet been a determination on possible collusion with the Trump campaign.
The indictments did reveal that attempts to hack into Democratic Party emails occurred later the same day that Trump called on Russians in a speech to uncover emails that his rival Hillary Clinton had held on a private server.
“I will tell you this, Russia: If you’re listening, I hope you’re able to find the 30,000 emails that are missing,” Trump said at a Florida news conference on July 27, 2016.
“I think you will probably be rewarded mightily by our press.”
White House officials were reportedly furious that the indictments were announced by U.S. Deputy Attorney General Rod Rosenstein on Friday morning, just days before the planned summit with Putin.
“It’s a big F-U from [special prosecutor Robert] Mueller,” a White House official told Politico, adding that it “wasn’t an accident” that the indictments were announced before the Helsinki summit.
--- end HPO----

--- start NYT (w error) ----
Democrats Say Trump Should Cancel Putin Meeting After Indictments
WASHINGTON — Leading Democrats called Friday for President Trump to cancel his upcoming meeting with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia after the Justice Department indicted 12 Russian intelligence officers accused of hacking Democrats’ emails and computer networks during the 2016 presidential race.
Top Republicans were mostly mute, though a handful — including Representative Ed Royce of California, the retiring chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee; Senator John McCain of Arizona, the chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, who has brain cancer; and Senator Ben Sasse of Nebraska, a frequent critic of Mr. Trump — urged the president to use the indictments to get tough with Mr. Putin when they meet on Monday in Helsinki, Finland.
“President Trump must be willing to confront Putin from a position of strength and demonstrate that there will be a serious price to pay for his ongoing aggression towards the United States and democracies around the world,” Mr. McCain said in a statement.
“If President Trump is not prepared to hold Putin accountable, the summit in Helsinki should not move forward.”
A grand jury indicted the officers on Friday, accusing them of conspiring to interfere with the outcome of the 2016 presidential election by hacking the Democratic National Committee, Hillary Clinton’s presidential campaign and the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee.
The indictment is part of an open investigation led by Robert S. Mueller III, the special counsel, who is examining whether the Trump campaign colluded with Russia, and whether Mr. Trump obstructed justice.
“These indictments are further proof of what everyone but the president seems to understand: President Putin is an adversary who interfered in our elections to help President Trump win,” Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the Democratic leader, said, adding that Mr. Trump should cancel the meeting “until Russia takes demonstrable and transparent steps to prove that they won’t interfere in future elections.”
A number of Democrats lined up behind Mr. Schumer.
Some on the House Foreign Affairs Committee also called for Mr. Trump to cancel the Monday session, as did Representative Adam B. Schiff of California, the senior Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee, and Senator Dianne Feinstein of California, the top Democrat on the Senate Judiciary Committee.
Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York, the top Democrat on the House Judiciary Committee, stopped short of calling on Mr. Trump to cancel, but he said the president should insist that other Americans be present and should demand that Mr. Putin extradite those indicted.
“I would not trust the president alone with Putin without some other Americans in the administration in there,” he said.
(TP) “For the president to break with the normal practice and meet with the Russian president alone, I wouldn’t trust what he says there.”
The charges were announced here on Friday by Rod J. Rosenstein, the deputy attorney general, who made clear during a news conference that the Justice Department views the hacking not as an attack on one party, but as an attack against the United States.
“It’s important for us to avoid thinking politically, as Republicans or Democrats, and instead to think patriotically as Americans,” Mr. Rosenstein said.
“Our response must not depend on which side was victimized.”
Mr. Sasse echoed that sentiment.
“The U.S. intelligence community knows that the Russian government attacked the U.S.,” Mr. Sasse said.
“This is not a Republican or a Democrat view — it is simply the reality.
All patriotic Americans should understand that Putin is not America’s friend, and he is not the president’s buddy.
We should stand united against Putin’s past and planned future attacks against us.”
But with the exception of Mr. McCain, Republicans steered clear of discussing whether Mr. Trump should cancel Monday’s meeting in Helsinki.
Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, did not have any immediate reaction, while a spokeswoman for Speaker Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin said simply that Mr. Ryan was “glad these hackers are being held to account.”
Representative Jim Jordan, Republican of Ohio, a founder of the conservative House Freedom Caucus, asked if Mr. Trump should demand extradition of the hackers, said, “I’ll leave that to the president.”
Mr. Jordan said the president has already “been clear he is going to ask Mr. Putin some tough questions.”
The chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee, Representative Trey Gowdy, Republican of South Carolina, said he intends to hold a hearing on election security at the end of July.
But asked if Mr. Trump should recalibrate his approach to the Putin meeting, Mr. Gowdy said, “That’s above my pay grade.”
But Mr. Royce, of California, called Friday for Mr. Trump to “use today’s indictments to challenge”
Mr. Putin at Monday’s summit meeting, adding, “We can’t afford to give an inch of ground in defending democracy.”
--- end NYT (w error) ----